3990:US	53082946	R32UNS7LOE3JGM	0515093203	800231754	The Cat Who Played Post Office	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Cats, The Mailbox, and the Missing Maid	This is number six in Lilian Braun's long running 'The Cat Who' series and marks the beginning of Jim Qwilleran's transplantation to the far northern town of Pickaxe.  Qwilleran has managed to become the heir of the community's wealthiest resident and must stay in Pickaxe for five years in order to inherit.  As we all know now, he lasted a lot more than five years, and may still be north of everywhere enjoying the foibles and gossip that play such an important part of the world's coziest cozies.<br /><br />Qwill has just moved into the Klingenshoen mansion with his two Siamese cats - Yum Yum the delectable and arch-detective Koko.  Koko, through various manipulations of his owner's behavior, manages to arouse Qwill's curiosity about the disappearance of a housemaid a few years previously.  In the process of investigating, the newspaperman introduces us to many of Pickaxes residents for the very first time.  When he isn't being his by trucks, that is.  It is interesting in retrospect to meet these characters again, who often started out one way and then became something else as Braun added layer after layer to her confection of characters and mysteries (and cats).<br /><br />I can only read so many of these in rapid succession before I have to stop.  Lilian Braun has a tendency to let her characters run in a groove with very little development over a number of volumes.  She makes up for this by using Qwilleran to create witty dialogue, but there are only so many Pickaxe witticisms that one can read before feeling a desire for something with a bit more meat to it.  This volume is a change of pace (if you've been reading in sequence).  There's a bit less sarcasm and a bit more story and that makes this one of the best of her early books.<br /><br />Don't look for a complicated mystery here.  Braun's villains tend to be obvious, and more often than not the means are just as visible.  You read these tales for lightweight enjoyment and the zany characters that chitchat their way through the pages.  And, of course, you read them because you can't resist Qwill's owners, the Siamese masterminds.hat their way through the pages.  And, of course, you read them because you can't resist Qwill's owners, the Siamese masterminds.	2005-10-12
10263:US	53082946	R1OTMZJW2BAG12	1588468496	933219641	Ventrue (Dark Ages Vampire, 12)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Playing for Kingdoms	It amazes me how many times I decide that this series is a total loss, only to find that the next volume actually is a good vampire novel.  After the disappointment of Dark Ages: Tremere I was pleasantly surprised that Ventrue actually had a plot, developed characters, and was even well written.  It displays the potential that lurks within the White Wolf's series when the books aren't simply being written as game fodder.<br /><br />Ventrue returns to Jurgen's court in Magdeburg to pick up events after Jervais' not quite successful foray into Livonia.  With the Telyavel witches destroyed or scattered, it is time for Jurgen to begin the real invasion of Livonia, expanding his territory and taking revenge for the death of Alexander.  This time his expedition will include Rosamund, the Tremere ambassador and focus of his affections as well as Gotzon, a Lasombra priest who has been his confessor since Jurgen was first made.  Rosamund enables the usually headstrong Jurgen to seek solutions that he would normally ignore.  And Gotzon is an unpredictable religious fanatic whose strength is a valuable asset - most of the time.<br /><br />The taking of Livonia  becomes a set of intricate chess moves, with Jurgen using Rosamund and Gotzon to work is way through the political intricacies that seem to follow vampire society even when they live in some of the most godforsaken (literally) terr<br /><br />Itory in northern Europe.  Non-Christian Tzimisce, Gangrel, and Telyavel are the primary opponents but the Cainite heresy appears as well.<br /><br />The unvampirelike relationship between Rosamund and Jurgen is the key to this tale.  For some, like Gotzon, love between vampires is every bit as much of a heresy as the Cainite beliefs.  This the affair creates the kind of conflicts around which characters can develop.  And McFarland is quick to make use of this opportunity, turning both vampires into complex characters who are understandable both as both humans and vampires.  And it is these characters who, in turn, breath life into the story.  There are only a few volumes in this series that stand out, and Ventrue is one of them.t is these characters who, in turn, breath life into the story.  There are only a few volumes in this series that stand out, and Ventrue is one of them.	2005-10-08
15191:US	53082946	R3J0W34YM4Q372	0743233484	751504452	Cross Bones (Temperance Brennan)	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Bones of Contention	This story is a change of pace for Temperance Brennan fans, who are used to a grimmer touch.  While the present day mystery is real enough (the murder of an Orthodox Jewish importer who was apparently executed for his complicity in an antiquity smuggling business.  But this story quickly takes second place when Brennan discovers that she might very well be performing an autopsy on the bones of Jesus Christ.<br /><br />Years previous to these events in Montreal the archeological excavation at the fort of Masada in Isreal discovers a chamber with the bones of 25 individuals.  Something about this discovery causes the archeologists to suppress the information (this actually happened).  Somehow Avram Ferris, the victim, had gotten mixed up with as set of these bones and now it has cost him his lift.<br /><br />But whose skeleton is it?  Could is be a Christ who never actually died, one of the Jewish defenders of Masada, or a frightened Christian convert caught in the rush of the Roman effort to end the insurrection.  And just to make things more convolute, when Temperance travels to Israel with Ryan, her lover, to investigate the crime, she is catapulted (literally) into a mystery that might very well be the Jesus family tomb.<br /><br />This is an excellent intellectual thriller that has our forensic archaeologist and her detective lover trying to piece together both the current story and the events of 2000 years ago.  Somehow the stories are related, and discovering how means solving the murder.  Or dying if Temperance isn't careful.  But prepare yourself for a delightful trip though history and modern Israeli politics with a story that is sometimes reminiscent of a Dan Brown novel and sometimes just hardboiled detection.<br /><br />The story focuses primarily on Temperance, this often turns Ryan into either a sex object or a simple source of facts.  But things are more interesting with him than they are without him so there's no cause to complain.  Kathy Reichs adventures into new territory and makes a go of it.hs adventures into new territory and makes a go of it.	2005-10-05
20762:US	53082946	R26INLD3BILYC	006057299X	128355253	Every Which Way But Dead (The Hollows, Book 3)	Books	3	36	47	N	N	Klutzes Can Be Witches Too!	I'm going to buck the trend here.  There are a couple of things that I found disappointing in what should have been a great book.  If I get hammered a bit sobeit, but I think fans deserve more than an essay in occult dysfunction.<br /><br />This has been a fairly solid series, with some interesting characters.  A team of three 'runners' occupy center stage:  Ivy the reluctant vampire to be, Jenks the motor-mouth pixie, and Rachel the earth/ley witch whose specialty is spending most of her time getting into situations where she can panic.  Unfortunately, Rachel is the narrator, and gradually you will get tired of reading lines like \\"So like an idiot, I froze, and it smacked right into me.\\"  Rachel is spunky, self-reliant, and determined.  So determined that she persistently jumps from one disaster to a worse one.  For a while it's funny, then it's entertaining, and finally, you just have to shake your head in dismay.<br /><br />This time her boyfriend leaves because he is terrified of her, so she misses him so much she starts up an affair with Kisten the most dangerous vampire in the city.  The demon Algaliarept is hot on making Rachel into his familiar, and since she knows exactly what makes her vulnerable to him, that's what she keeps doing.  She wanders into a struggle between to supernatural mavens of crime.  Insisting that she doesn't kill people, the list of fatalities around her keeps mounting.  She has an amazing ability to alienate friends as well.<br /><br />Which doesn't mean that this is a bad book just that for all her pretensions, Rachel is no Anita Blake.  It's obvious that Kim Harrison is setting her up to be the series sex star, but that really isn't enough.  Thank goodness, though, most of the other characters are much stronger than Rachel, so, usually by accident, she manages to survive.  What I don't know is if the series will survive another volume of plots that careen from one unnecessary problem.<br /><br />Actually, I'm giving this book a three because late in the book she makes a genocidal decision for a selfish and silly reason.  Haphazard plotting and gratuitous sex I can handle.  But Kim Harrison isn't the kind of writer who can carry a character who is that hopelessly vicious.  The result is that she blows by what is probably the most significant opportunity in the book.  Well if you like a lot of action and 'no biting' sex, this will do for you.  Hopefully the next book will work better.makes a genocidal decision for a selfish and silly reason.  Haphazard plotting and gratuitous sex I can handle.  But Kim Harrison isn't the kind of writer who can carry a character who is that hopelessly vicious.  The result is that she blows by what is probably the most significant opportunity in the book.  Well if you like a lot of action and 'no biting' sex, this will do for you.  Hopefully the next book will work better.	2005-10-02
28659:US	53082946	RXDASSJLBES58	0517599910	246757475	Vurt	Books	4	8	14	N	N	Feathers or Lead?	Out of the same genre that brought us William Gibson's Neuromancer, comes Jeff Noon's effort, Vurt.  While Gibson's work is much stronger than Noon's both speak of a future world where almost everyone is a member of one or another underclass.  Cyberpunk society is such that interclass antagonism and friction are the rule and reality is attenuated with every sort of drug or device available.  In Jeff Noon's world virtual reality has become more popular than life in the humdrum lanes.  Many simply live there.  Vurt has gained its own rules and energy and it is even possible to become part virtual or to be swapped with something that lives there.<br /><br />The mechanism by which virtuality is experienced is via a feather-like playback device which is color coded by its level of danger to a personality, with yellow being the highly illegal worst.  These are the Vurt of the title.  When Scribble and his sister Desdemona share a black and yellow Vurt, they are caught in a trap.  Only Scribble comes back out.  Or rather, only Scribble and a strange lump of flesh called The Think.  In Vurt there are special rules of exchange, and not Desdemona is lost, and Scribble is desperately trying to retake the same trip and reverse the trade.<br /><br />Scribble runs with a 'club' of Vurt users - The Stash Riders.  While they support Scribble in his effort to find another copy of that deadly feather, they also pursue their own agendas.  Scribble is always on the border between help and betrayal.  As Noon gradually reveals a complex society where there are humans, mechanicals, dog people, and Vurt people you realize that the only thing with approaches normalcy us the ugliness of police behavior, where the worst that people can do to each other is enshrined as law.  Here lovers can grow their hair together, bullets kill you with pleasure, and the best friend you can have is a dog with titanium bones.  If the tale didn't have a sense of humor, it would have been a horror story.<br /><br />Both Neuromancer and Vurt deliberately cause a lot of confusion on the part of the reader, but Vurt lacks the ability to bring the chaos under control..  So while one leaves Neuromancer with a sense of appreciation for the author's skills.  Vurt's ending is both anticlimactic and a bit irritating, but one has to appreciate Noon's ability to create a world of both dysfunction and cold beauty.  This is cyberpunk with some of the rough edges filed off.  It's not pure, but it isn't trash either.Vurt deliberately cause a lot of confusion on the part of the reader, but Vurt lacks the ability to bring the chaos under control..  So while one leaves Neuromancer with a sense of appreciation for the author's skills.  Vurt's ending is both anticlimactic and a bit irritating, but one has to appreciate Noon's ability to create a world of both dysfunction and cold beauty.  This is cyberpunk with some of the rough edges filed off.  It's not pure, but it isn't trash either.	2005-09-28
29366:US	53082946	R2XNWS5OHUTQTO	0671026364	989094907	Resurrecting Ravana  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	People A La Mode	This is an older Buffy novel (by older, I mean circa 2000) that I somehow forgot to review.  Coming back to it is something like getting a breath of fresh air.  In retrospect Buffy's senior year was one of those simpler times.  Whedon wasn't quite as determined to take everyone out of character.  Most, but not all, of the personal issues were teenage angst sized.  All this was soon to end, but sometimes you have to take the good times with the bad.<br /><br />Although there isn't much good about what was happening to Sunnydale.  First cattle start showing up eaten and the eaters turn out to be hell hounds.  Then more cattle are munched, but this time there are no easy explanations.  The people start going into rages and killing each other - with the survivor turning up as lunch on something's menu.  Giles is stumped, Buffy is faced with a vampire insurgency, and Willow can find no help in either the internet or her spellbook.  Did I mention Buffy and Willow?  They also happen to be very, very mad at each other.<br /><br />Of course, it's some kind of bad demon mojo, but how its happening and who is calling it up is the problem.  You can't hit what you cannot find.  Naturally this state of affairs can't last, but by the time Giles knows the culprit its almost too late.  All of the Scooby gang are going to be up to their elbows in snarling beasties before the curtain even begins to close.<br /><br />Ray Garton is more than a churner-outer of Buffy books.  Even at the time of this writing he had some 37 books to his credit from Sabrina to serious horror.  He has a solid, competent style that leaves out nothing necessary but is wary of waxing on endlessly.  Not only did I enjoy the book, but I had a major nostalgia attack while reading it.  Buffy, Buffy, where art thou?	2005-09-27
33862:US	53082946	R3UOS56CV0PJYP	055380197X	946248869	Locked Rooms (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	"Come Russel - the game's afoot!"	I've enjoyed Laurie King's variations on the Sherlock Holmes revisited them since they first started to appear.  For one thing, they are written with a great deal of intelligence and wit, from the viewpoint of Mary Russell, the young wife of a much older Holmes.  One quickly forgets their age difference - once the pair is mid-adventure they are true equals.  Because of this, Holmes never develops the egotistical vapidity that haunts some of Doyle's imitators.<br /><br />Having taken the couple on a wild tour through the Middle East and Asia, Russell sends them of one what one would first expect to be calmer turf - San Francisco, where Mary was raised and where her family died in a terrible accident.  It is to be a business trip, where Mary intends to see to her late father's holdings and prepare her home for sale.  But things aren't that straightforward.  Mary has buried all the painful memories that recall her guilt over her family's accident.  Now dreams are haunting her, and, worse yet, she and Holmes have become targets in an inexplicable game.<br /><br />Something happened in the desperate days of the San Francisco earthquake.  Something that wrought a change in her father's relationship with his handyman and gardener, and nearly destroyed his marriage.  Mary struggles with her recalcitrant memory, trying to piece events together.  Holmes also investigates, but, for once, Mary resents his intrusion.  To her this is her problem.  Holmes finds himself conducting his own clandestine investigation.  Not so much into the past, but to find out why someone is trying to kill Mary.<br /><br />The result is a rich story, told from two separate viewpoints, full of a wealth of details about the earthquake.  The tension between Mary and Holmes is kept at just the right pitch for good character development while avoiding dramatic extremes.  The result is a highly successful novel that can stand on its own, if you wish.  But I would recommend pursuing the whole series, where there is much to delight any fan of Sherlock Holmes.any fan of Sherlock Holmes.	2005-09-25
37107:US	53082946	R2VOQJCL1AV1Y7	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A Mystery Bound Up in an Enigma	Loyal readers are no doubt familiar with the Uberwald region if Discworld.  There, vampires and werewolves rule the night (and day) and dwarves mine elephant lard from deep underground.  And an occasional witch, or two, or three.  But for the average resident of Ankh-Morpork the Uberwald is a place of mystery and confusion, full of things that would just as soon eat you (or drink you, or chop you in half) as look at you.  When a diplomatic mission became necessary, Lord Vetinari quickly decides that it's best to send someone who likely to survive.  Thus it is that Commander Vimes, master of the city's police force and Duke of Ankh-Morpork, finds himself bound for Bonk (pronounced beyonk) to attend the coronation of the Low King.<br /><br />Vimes quickly finds himself the target of everyone's plot to beat everyone else.  Werewolves plot to cause war among the dwarves and vampires switch from side to side as the mood strikes them.  There's a spy under every gravestone, a lot of irritated critters wandering the woods, and the Scone of Stone can't make up its mind whether it is counterfeit, real, or accidentally thrown out with the bath water.  Fortunately, Vimes has his indomitable wife, a couple of Ankh-Morpork's finest (Angua the werewolf and Detritus the troll) to help him out.  Vines isn't the kind of diplomat who is inclined to dissemble and the citizens of fair Bonk are in for more than a few surprises.<br /><br />Meanwhile, back in Ankh-Morpork, Sergeant Colon, who has all the wit and insight of a lamp post, has inadvertently been made captain in the absence of anyone else who has any sense.  Convinced of a plot to steal sugar cubes from his tea supplies he manages to bully or offend almost all of his inferiors.  In short order, there are more active policemen in the Uberwald than there are in Ankh-Morpork.  Only luck keeps the city from becoming even worse than it normally is.<br /><br />Pratchett's 'upper' themes are about the abuse of political power and the essential dishonesty of diplomacy.  Unfortunately, there's only so much humor to be wrung out of now Captain Colon's ineptness or the strange world of dwarven sexual politics.  As such, this will never be one of my favorite Discworld books.  It has plenty of sarcastic and ironic lines, but it never completely comes together.  In the final analysis, the Ankh-Morpork sub-plot never really adds much to the story, which makes the ending a bit of an anti-climax.  But, it's still a Terry Pratchett book; it is still a display of humor and intelligence in a world which is often lacking in either.  Go forth and read it!d the essential dishonesty of diplomacy.  Unfortunately, there's only so much humor to be wrung out of now Captain Colon's ineptness or the strange world of dwarven sexual politics.  As such, this will never be one of my favorite Discworld books.  It has plenty of sarcastic and ironic lines, but it never completely comes together.  In the final analysis, the Ankh-Morpork sub-plot never really adds much to the story, which makes the ending a bit of an anti-climax.  But, it's still a Terry Pratchett book; it is still a display of humor and intelligence in a world which is often lacking in either.  Go forth and read it! <br />	2005-09-23
43727:US	53082946	R3V3RFI047M40H	0671721542	466506841	When the Bough Breaks:  A Novel of the Serrated Edge	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Serious Subject	It's embarrassing when a book has been sitting on a 'to be read' pile for so long the pages are yellowing.  And I like Mercedes Lackey.  Perhaps it was the idea of Elf racecar drivers that put me off.  It seemed like stretching the elf prototype a bit.  And maybe it's just a little too cutesy.<br /><br />Yet 'When the Bough Breaks' is anything but a cute story.  Racing is a backdrop for the story of an Elf (Mac Lynn) who is uncomfortable with his heritage and falling in love with a human (Lianne McCormick) for the second time.  He should know better one would think, but there is something in the Elven mind that is drawn to drama.  But even that isn't the real center of the story.<br /><br />Amanda is a pre-adolescent girl who comes from an abusive family.  Not a little abusive, but a lot abusive.  So abusive that her personality has divided in order that some parts of her mind can never have to know the horrible truth.  So abusive that her massive psychic talent has awakened and, if she cannot learn to master her anger, it may very well bring the Elven world down.  The only think holding together is that one of her personalities isn't hers, but that of an ancient druid witch.<br /><br />Mac and Lianne struggle to extract Amanda from her wealthy but hopeless environment, but are hampered on all sides.  Not only is Amanda herself a threat, but several psychic hunters are determined to kidnap Mac or Amanda and enslave them for their powers.  It will take a miracle for this to work out well, and, frankly, well just may not be an option.<br /><br />As much as I applaud Lackey and Lisle for making a real statement about the horrors of child abuse, the plot is heavy handed in other places with less effect.  There's are too many things going on and this weakens the plot line around Amanda.  And Mac Lynn's antics provide a distracting and almost innapropriate contrast to the core issues.  I would have liked to see this be a simpler, darker story with a less predictable conclusion.le conclusion.	2005-09-20
56697:US	53082946	R3SVCPO8S47M8C	0441297528	252982068	The Golden Naginata (Tomoe Gozen #2)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	One Samurai's Road	This is the second volume in Jessica Salmonson's fantasy series set around the life of Tomoe Gozen, a semi-legendary woman Samurai in 12th Century Japan.  Gozen is believed to have become the wife of Minamoto no Yoshinaka who launched an unsuccessful struggle to gain lordship over Japan and the Minamoto clan that culminated in a massive battle near Kyoto in 1184.<br /><br />This part of the story starts with Tomoe's refusal to accept a husband.  In Feudal Japan a woman was permitted to be a samurai until she was married.  At that time she must put aside her weapons and become an obedient homemaker - hardly the kind of role for which the young woman was suited.  Instead she storms off and becomes enmeshed in fighting the efforts of one sword smith to destroy the life and works of Okio, the most brilliant sword smith of the age.<br /><br />In a mid-book climax where Tomoe and her companions battle the 55 samurai who took the life of Okio she discovers the one of her new friends is actually Kiso Yoshinaka, to whom she was promised as bride, and who invites her to join him as a full equal instead of a subservient child bearer.  Tomoe accepts, and joins in Lord Kiso's conquests as he gradually builds the strength he will need to challenge his cousin.<br /><br />In the process of this struggle Tomoe is granted the use of the Golden Naginata, a weapon that will blind anyone who see is unless it has been coated with the blood of the magical kirin that is its guardian.  While the weapon often grants victory it seems to collect a toll on its wielder, not in strength, but in anger and self-doubt.  Thus this isn't just an adventure story but a tale of Tomoe's efforts to find herself in a culture that always seems to limit her choices.<br /><br />Aside from an overly long battle scene that seems to be more concerned with its emulation of Japanese convention than stimulating interest, this is a better book than it's predecessor.  It is more of a novel, and Tomoe Gozen reveals a great deal of character as she follows her own difficult path.  She is atypical, even for a female samurai and never falls into the role of romantic heroine.eals a great deal of character as she follows her own difficult path.  She is atypical, even for a female samurai and never falls into the role of romantic heroine.	2005-09-13
58464:US	53082946	R50K7BGC3WX2B	1588468488	134449215	Tremere Dark Ages Clan Novel (Dark Ages Vampire, 11)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Blood Magic	With Alexander destroyed in the Livonian campaign, Prince Jurgen can now pursue his own interests without the competition and intrigue that for which Alexander was noted.  While much relieved he seizes an opportunity for revenge that will allow him to remove another thorn from his court, the Tremere mage Jervais.<br /><br />It is easy to underestimate Jervais, who shows little taste for the hardships of the north of Europe.  Even his masters in the enclave of Ceoris view him with doubt, but find the idea of having Jervais lead a punitive expedition back into the forests of Livonia attractive.  Jurgen will get his revenge, the Tremere will strike back at Deverra, who deserted the Tremere to form her own band on the Northern Steppes.  And just maybe, Jervais will undo himself in the process.<br /><br />But Jervais is made of sterner and more devious stuff.  His band of seven blood mages with the reinforcement of the Knights of the Black Cross keep surviving against the insurmountable odds of an alien magic in an alien land.  Matching Deverra spell for spell shows an unexpected competence and an extraordinarily unpleasant personality.<br /><br />Gervais is a closs tie with Alexander for most obnoxious vampire of this series.  While this is the volume with the most action so far,  The Tremere mages have no personality to hang on to.  You keep hoping that Deverra and Qarakh will put Jervais down, but every time he manages to weasel through.  It becomes easy to understand why the Tremere are as unpopular as they are - not even other Tremere like them.<br /><br />I found the book a bit tedious. Deverra's appearances are brief, and looking over Jervais' shoulders too long makes the reader want to wash their hands.  I was hoping that the increase in the use of magic would add interest, but it all comes down to who has the biggest fireball, and that only amuses for a short time.  While Tremere doesn't become a didactic demonstration of vampire history, it also never quite lives up to its promise either.uite lives up to its promise either.	2005-09-12
64001:US	53082946	R2J07EX9HH28QR	0446576972	670656489	Dance of Death	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Why Are They Talking About Leeches?	Those of you out there who have been following Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child are, by now, all too familiar with their modern version of Sherlock Holmes - Aloysius Prendergast, member of the wealthy Southern elite, master of disguises and detection, and the world's best FBI agent.  As his nearly ever-present Watson, is Vincent D'Agosta a Lieutenant on the NYPD and Prendergast's loyal friend.  And playing Moriarty is Prendergast's mortal enemy, his evil brother, Diogenes.<br /><br />I think that there comes a point in every series where the authors have run out of room to develop the protagonists, and their characters must now stand and fall on their own.  Unfortunately Prendergast, who manages to combine an overlarge ego with a profoundly cold human interface, is not sympathetic enough to stay in center stage.  Instead, the writers move D'Agosta into the forefront, along with several key characters from previous books.  Thus the plot is disjointed for much of the novel until several of the pieces finally run together.<br /><br />Diogenes runs about the United States killing one after another of Prendergast's friends in chilling ways meant to recall old family fatalities.  Prendergast is his usual glossy self until Diogenes decides to murder a woman his brother met for only a handful of hours in the previous volume.  At that point Aloysius launches into frenetic action.  And still, it is only by Herculean effort that the detective even manages to stay within sight of his brother.<br /><br />We never are clear why Diogenes hates his brother so much.  That is apparently to be left to the next volume.  But he is determined to destroy Prendergast and pull off an impossible crime at the same time.  Baffling both Prendergast and the police forces, Diogenes is brilliant, psychotic, and insufferable.  The intricacies of his scheming are immeasurable, although, if you time table his moves you may realize that he has also mastered instantaneous matter tranmission.<br /><br />Be it as it may, much of this book is fragmentary, and it is only in the last third that the plot seams to gel.  I found myself repeatedly reading the novel for 20 minutes and then picking up something else more gripping.  The two authors still write well enough, but I fear this may be a case of one book's worth of material stretched out to become two.  You will see what I mean when you encounter what I call the miracle of Lucifer's Heart.  It is the climax of a plot arc, and requires several unnecessary risks in the process.  Count this book as readable, but not up to these authors' best./> <br />Be it as it may, much of this book is fragmentary, and it is only in the last third that the plot seams to gel.  I found myself repeatedly reading the novel for 20 minutes and then picking up something else more gripping.  The two authors still write well enough, but I fear this may be a case of one book's worth of material stretched out to become two.  You will see what I mean when you encounter what I call the miracle of Lucifer's Heart.  It is the climax of a plot arc, and requires several unnecessary risks in the process.  Count this book as readable, but not up to these authors' best.	2005-09-09
74040:US	53082946	RYJ03AJ6TZMYI	0689119135	892860647	The Cold Smell of Sacred Stone	Books	3	1	1	N	N	"I'm Not Anybody's Master"	This is the last of the Valhalla books in that it deals with the final repercussions of Mongo and brother Bart's trip into destructive phylogeny.  Bart, who has been haunted by what he learned in the Valhalla project ends the last volume in a surge of violent followed by complete catatonia.  Now Mongo struggles to bring Bart back to the world and then deal with the aftereffects when Bart recovers only to become a religious leader.<br /><br />Mongo's solution to for Bart was to  continually play Wagner's Ring to him, recalling the their days as experimental subjects.  When Bart comes out he is so different that Mongo almost regrets having intervened in his brother's treatment.  What nobody had planned on was that the KGB would had infiltrated the hospital.  A drug caused Bart's reaction, and the Russians wanted to know about it.<br /><br />In a flurry of spy vs. spy, Bart disappears, only to resurface in New York City, trying to help the desolate poor and rapidly turning into a religious icon.  Mongo's guilt at what had happened to his brother reaches a peak when he realizes that he must debunk Bart's credentials in order to save his life.  Nothing is ever easy.<br /><br />This is much more of a suspense story than a mystery, since Chesbro consistently tells the reader what is going to happen.  And, to be honest, there isn't all that much suspense either.  The story essentially serves to take Mongo and Bart through the transition to an independent detective agency.  The events in the hospital are dragged out for most of the story, along with some collateral embellishments.<br /><br />This is Mongo's most introspective novel.  Unfortunately, he tends to introspect in the same vein all the time.  If it weren't for Chesbro's writing skill this novel would have failed badly.  As it is, it is an emotional, but very low key finale to what is otherwise a very strong trilogy.  Do not read this book before The Beasts of Valhalla, since the Cold Smell of Sacred Stone gives away much of that plot.  While its not my favorite, it wraps up several previous story arcs and sets the scene for many stronger Mongo tales.ne gives away much of that plot.  While its not my favorite, it wraps up several previous story arcs and sets the scene for many stronger Mongo tales.	2005-09-05
77525:US	53082946	R5QU03T4HHN8I	0321213149	377913064	Cocoa(R) Programming for Mac(R) OS X (2nd Edition)	Books	5	26	38	N	N	Cocoa yes, Objective C no	I picked this book up as my first real effort to learn what developing on the Mac involves.  The Mac is pretty complicated under the covers, cocoa is the 'easy' way to gain access to the Mac's power, and I learn best when there are a love of examples and explanation.  Since then I've had a love/hate relationship with this book.  Some of which isn't Aaron Hillegass' fault at all and some is probably an inherent flaw of a book for geeks by a geek.<br /><br />In general, the book is an excellent introduction - well-written and loaded with programming exercises,  Hillegas provides some introductory chapters on the Cocoa framework and the more common place aspects of Objective C and then you are off on a whirlwind tour of a very complicated country.  If you stick to it, this book will teach you a lot.  Unfortunately, ne of the things you will learn about is Objective C.<br /><br />I've gone through the C, C++, and Java stages of software development.  While I've forgotten most of what I knew, Objective C has a number of quirky ways of expressing itself.  It has a piecemeal style of memory management which I find more leak prone than C++ and an inconvenient grammar that seems to dote on unnecessary numbers of brackets.  Anyone who is used to Jave or C++ is going to find Objective C irritating.  This isn't Hillegass' fault, but he has a habit of using extra long method names that brings out the worst of the language.  I believe it's a modern geek thing to see just how long a name can be.<br /><br />Hillegas wrote this edition before Xcode 2.0 appeared, and some of the examples, particularly in Interface Builder, don't quite make the transition, which can create some hairpulling.  Eventually, you can figure everything out.  I also found Hillegass's decidion to not make the source code available from his website a bit petty.  While 99.99% of my problems were my own typing mistakes it would be nice to be able to download the source to see if it worked at all.  He also includes a number of challenge assignments and refuses to provide more than vague hints.  On several occasions my problem was that his assignment wasn't clear, not any real difficulty with the challenge.<br /><br />I would also have appreciated a more methodical approach to Cocoa's architecture.  I would have appreciated a walk of the framework hierarchy, but that has a lot to do with how I best learn frameworks.  I'm still giving the book high marks, because it attempts to accomplish a lot, and it comes pretty darn close.  But I've decided that learning to use Cocoa from Java would work better for me, even if Objective C is the current Apple standard.ncludes a number of challenge assignments and refuses to provide more than vague hints.  On several occasions my problem was that his assignment wasn't clear, not any real difficulty with the challenge. <br /> <br />I would also have appreciated a more methodical approach to Cocoa's architecture.  I would have appreciated a walk of the framework hierarchy, but that has a lot to do with how I best learn frameworks.  I'm still giving the book high marks, because it attempts to accomplish a lot, and it comes pretty darn close.  But I've decided that learning to use Cocoa from Java would work better for me, even if Objective C is the current Apple standard.	2005-09-02
81236:US	53082946	RFZYPNR12ICW6	0441816533	199419133	Tomoe Gozen	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Mikado's Samurai	Tomoe Gozen, the Wikipedia tells us, was a legendary woman samurai in the service of Minamoto no Yoshinaka who attempted to seize the throne of Japan from his brother in 1184.  Now Jessica Salmonson has written about an alternate world where Japan is much the same as it was back then, but magic worked and demons and trolls lurked in the shadows waiting for their opportunities.<br /><br />The story opens with Tomoe and her companions in the service of a warlord - Shojiro Shigeno - helping him in his conflict will Huan, a magician who hates Shigeno and wants his wealth.  Tomoe is stricken fatally in a battle and her friend Ushii carries her off to the castle of the wizard to demand her healing.  But the wizard drives a tough bargain, Tomoe lives, but she becomes his own samurai.  By magic he forces her to turn against Shigeno in a horrific battle, betraying her honor and making herself a masterless samurai.<br /><br />From this point Tomoe's story is of one who seeks the keys to her own redemption.  Ugo Mohri, the Shogun's Champion, tells her that she must wait to serve the Mikado in his need, and that one day they will test each other's skill.  Tomoe's begins a journey across Japan with a variety of companions, righting wrongs and creating her fate.  Deeply hurt by her weakness to Huan's magical skill, Tomoe is so fearful of being around magic that she becomes its victim in spite of herself.  Until she can conquer her fears, she cannot face Mohri, and until she faces Mohri, she cannot regain her honor.<br /><br />Salmonson does a very nice job of recreating the storytelling of the ancient courts of Japan.  The style is reminiscent of an older time when legends were treated with a certain amount of ritual and respect.  The story has its own rhythm, one that provides an alien atmosphere.  While not precisely authentic it appeals to American stereotypes of ancient Japan and the reader will find Salmonson's dreams of Naipon are addictive.	2005-08-31
82614:US	53082946	RNWL8C88A06H6	0765347857	105751497	MEG: Primal Waters	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Just Exactly Who Is Biting Who?	Sometimes the third time is not the charm.  Once upon a time Steve Alten devised a nifty way to capitalize on all the money that was going the way of Jaws and other sharkaholic films.  He devised the resurrection of an ancient terror - Carcharodon Megalodon.  A fifty to seventy foot, up to seventy-ton eating machine that only pauses between bites to see where its next meal is coming from.<br /><br />Alten's hero, Jonas Taylor, first met our big shark in the Marinas trench, and in two books worth of adventures has managed to survive being chased and eaten, and is now trying to have some semblance of a family life, making his money on lectures and books.  He is married, has a very irritating daughter, a shark fixated son, and a beautiful wife who has become neurotic about risk taking after a few bad adventures of her own.  The typical neurotic family with too many expenses and not enough income.<br /><br />It's been 18 years since Jonas last confronted a meg, but when he is offered $150,000 to help MC a reality TV stunt show that will take place on a replica galleon with a course set over some of the deepest and shark infested waters in the world, he talks himself into going. Terry his wife goes ballistic, but Jonas insists, and the compromise is that Dani, his daughter goes along for the trip.  Since Dani is in total rebellion and has fallen for one of the stunt geeks, this bodes ill for Jonas' peace of mind.<br /><br />What follows is standard shark novel fare.  Jonas, Terry and their son David all go there separate ways, risking their lives to chase down not one, not two, but three of the rarest fish in the ocean.  Bits and pieces of the plot alternate with an endless supply of shark attacks.  Alten spares no effort to explain that when a meg bites something they explode into bits do to jaw pressure, and the scenes are full of flying parts.<br /><br />The core plot is a bit strained, since it turns out that the entire reality TV stunt program has been concocted so that an old enemy can turn Jonas into canned cat food.  To a background of various megalodons munching on everything from baseball fans to grizzly bears.  Alten makes it pretty clear that there will be sequels, but Primal Waters is really as far as one can go (and a bit further) before a plot starts being silly and you start rooting for the shark.  In addition the novel has a very slow start.  But if you are on a shock and gore hunt you may be moderately satisfied.cted so that an old enemy can turn Jonas into canned cat food.  To a background of various megalodons munching on everything from baseball fans to grizzly bears.  Alten makes it pretty clear that there will be sequels, but Primal Waters is really as far as one can go (and a bit further) before a plot starts being silly and you start rooting for the shark.  In addition the novel has a very slow start.  But if you are on a shock and gore hunt you may be moderately satisfied.	2005-08-30
85016:US	53082946	RBU2D0FG4NBS3	0967450330	544091998	The Beasts of Valhalla	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One Song Is Gentle...The Other is...Death	For some reason, I tend to read George Chesbro by accident.  My first was An Affair of Sorcerors, which I thought would be a straightforward occult story, and which turned out to be something much more intriguing.  In truth, his stories refuse to be easily classified, as one might expect when the hero is a Mongo Frederickson, ex-circus midget, acrobat, and currently a professor of criminology.  For all this, Mongo is a tough and shrewd investigator with a knack for getting dragged into mysteries that threaten everyone's peace of mind.<br /><br />Archangel takes place just after the Valhalla crisis and reveals both Mongo and his brother Garth still having trouble getting their minds around the ramifications of that case.  Veil Kendry is a friend of Mongo's who was once a cold-blooded killer - and is now a combination artist and street vigilante.  The artist has vanished from his studio leaving Mongo a new painting and $10,000 in cash.<br /><br />Gradually it becomes clear that Veil has vanished to take action against an old enemy, and has left Mongo with clues spread all over the U.S. and Southeast Asia.  Veil was a CIA operative in Viet Nam and Laos during the savage, waning years of that conflict, and what he had seen and done at that time has become a threat to a megalomaniac murderer who will stop at nothing to keep his hands on the lines of power.<br /><br />In almost no time at all, Mongo has discovered enough to endanger the lives of both him and his brother.  Death seems to be treading on their heels, but the more Mongo discovers the more determined he becomes to put a stop to a horror that began 25 years previously.<br /><br />Chesbro is really at his best in this book.  Mongo's determination, Garth's anger as both their hunter and the artist, and the fierce loyalty Veil Kendry seems to command from both his fellow soldiers and the Hmong that he lived with for several years, all this comes to life in a plot which takes one twist after another.  From dark beginnings to a shocking ending Chesbro keeps the reader's attention by never letting up.  This is a good a starting point as any, although, the events of The Beasts of Valhalla figure in this book enough to making Beasts a better starting point.dark beginnings to a shocking ending Chesbro keeps the reader's attention by never letting up.  This is a good a starting point as any, although, the events of The Beasts of Valhalla figure in this book enough to making Beasts a better starting point.	2005-08-29
92603:US	53082946	RMCO43C3PLBK0	0061020656	226014260	Pyramids (Discworld Book 7)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Camels Are More Important Than Pyramids	This is a fairly early Terry Pratchett (number seven I believe) and demonstrate his unique ability to lampoon nearly everything at once.  We find ourselves with Teppic the heir to throne of Djelibeybi, who has been sent off to Ankh-Morpark to learn a decent trade.  Or rather, a lucrative indecent trade of inhumation (otherwise called assassination).  Djelibeybi has been building bigger and bigger pyramids for some 7,000 years and is way behind on its payments.  Somebody has to bring home a paycheck.<br /><br />Teppic has mastered all the requisite skills (tucking equipment everywhere, wearing black clothes, swinging from buildings, etc) and now, in a flash of accidental good luck, he has passed his final exam.  At this crucial moment, Teppic's father develops a sudden urge to fly and our young assassin must return to the world's most tradition bound kingdom (no toilets, no mattresses, and no aqueducts).  Having spent years in the most corrupt city on Discworld Teppic must wear a very heavy mask, sleep on stone beds, and be a very bored god.  And bankrupt the kingdom building his father's pyramid.<br /><br />Pyramids are the problem.  Since each one has to be bigger than the last, they have long since achieved enough mass to bend light and absorb time.  This keeps their occupants alive, but the accumulation of present and future time has to be vented off nightly.  The reason Teppic's country is so stodgy is that all the present and future is being shot off into space and they only have the past left to live in.<br /><br />Now Teppic decides that his father's tomb will be an order of magnitude larger than its predecessors, and all quantum breaks out.  Even before it is finished is becomes a major time hazard and suddenly, in one great big pffft, it folds Djellibaybi into a Hilbert space and leaves Teppic with a camel sized headache.  Needless to say this irritates the heck out of Teppic's father (dead or not), all the mummified kings, and a large number of loose gods.<br /><br />Pratchett uses this opportunity to mach fun of organized religion, solipsistic scientists, relativity, archaism, relatives, politics, war, and mathematicians with one or two humps and four stomachs.  He spares no one, and it is great fun for the reader.  His ability to pull a horrible pun out of thin air is unequalled.  Pratchett's message has always been that life is too important to take seriously,  By all means hunt this up, you'll be mummified laughing.opportunity to mach fun of organized religion, solipsistic scientists, relativity, archaism, relatives, politics, war, and mathematicians with one or two humps and four stomachs.  He spares no one, and it is great fun for the reader.  His ability to pull a horrible pun out of thin air is unequalled.  Pratchett's message has always been that life is too important to take seriously,  By all means hunt this up, you'll be mummified laughing.	2005-08-25
100298:US	53082946	R39DVMZA6AVO55	0596009127	846181954	Mac OS X Tiger for Unix Geeks	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A Little Heady, But Not Unbearably So...	This isn't a book for beginners, but depending on what you are looking for it isn't totally advanced reading.  Part I (Getting Around) is an assortment of 10 chapters - Inside the Terminal, Searching and Metadata, Startup, etc. - that are really just deeper dives.  Once you have gotten past the \\"where's the terminal?\\" stage they provide good, useful information for any user who expects to spend time on the command line.  Or who simply wants to know how things work.<br /><br />But with Part II (Building Applications) the dive becomes much deeper, focusing on compiler requirements, libraries, frameworks, dynamic linking, and all the other minutia that a serious developer needs, especially one making the transition from the Unix world.  If you are completely Mac based and are happy with Xcode you may find this is overkill.  Later sections deal with Working with Packages, Serving and System Management, and some miscellaneous points.<br /><br />Rothman and Jepson's writing style is a bit dry, and in the deeper sections they will often make assumptions about how well versed you are in Unix.  Even in the Unix world there aren't a lot of people who are linking and loading experts and a little more effort at explaining the terms would have been appreciated.  Come to think of it that's a standards fault anywhere in the Unix world - people keep assuming that the reason you are reading a book is that you already know what's in it - so I shouldn't complain.<br /><br />Still, this is a good reference book.  If I ever do want to create packages from the command line this will be my first stop.  It belongs on the shelves of all Mac professionals, geeks or not.	2005-08-21
106235:US	53082946	RPVWHPU3AUME	0345390407	745056507	Hidden City (The Tamuli)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Gods, Spirits, Good and Bad Guys -- Again.	There's some sort of sense of accomplishment in reading sixteen books by one author one right after another.  Either that ot it's a measure of sheer power of will.  Will David Eddings, both statements are true.  There are moments in his booths where he has repeated his plot for the umpteenth time when you just want to throw the book out the window.  And then there are those times when he pulls something off perfectly and you have to admit to his talent.<br /><br />The Hidden City is the last volume of the Tamuli, which is the second series about Sparhawk and Ehlana, and Eddings fourth series over all.  After foiling several of Cyrgon and Zalasta's plans the bad guys kidnap Ehlana triggering a manhunt where every one of the home team is traveling under at least one layer of disquise.  The must neutralize Cyrgon's plans for world conquest and find the road to the Hidden City, where Ehlana is being held hostage for Sparhawks good behavior.<br /><br />This story shifts back and forth among the various players as they sneak, pose, fight, and steal their way across the lands of Berit.  The make friends of enemies, stand of alien attacks and create general havoc, drawing steadily closer to the final conflict, where Bhelliom faces Klael and Sparhawk has one last fight with Cyrgon.  This is a complicated story at this stage and Eddings' efforts to geep the threads in synch will occasionally leave the reader shaking his head.<br /><br />Technically, this is Eddings best writing, but not his best plot (the Elenium owns that honor) or his most innovative (the Belgariad has that prize).  But it never bogs down, although it takes a long time to unfold.  Eddings is best at the interplay between his characters although they develop very slowly if at all.  But  at least they are strong and original characters that can last for a trilogy or two.<br /><br />Fantasy has come a ways since the days of these volumes but they still display an ability to entertain and their occasionally wry humor brought a new vigor to a genre that was always in danger of slipping into overblown language or pure hack and slashery.  Eddings is no Tolkein, nor does he use the tortured heroes of Michael Moorcock, but repetitive that he might be, it is himself that he repeats, not someone he is imitating.  I like him (in small doses, so it may be a decade before I read these again) and I think most fantasy buffs will as well..ally wry humor brought a new vigor to a genre that was always in danger of slipping into overblown language or pure hack and slashery.  Eddings is no Tolkein, nor does he use the tortured heroes of Michael Moorcock, but repetitive that he might be, it is himself that he repeats, not someone he is imitating.  I like him (in small doses, so it may be a decade before I read these again) and I think most fantasy buffs will as well..	2005-08-17
119960:US	53082946	R2SY1FZ997YJW5	0441012795	142764139	Dead as a Doornail (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Furry Trouble	Charlaine Harris has developed such a unique twist on the vampire genre that she has already begun to attract imitators, but she owns the vampire/back country/chick lit storyline completely.  I read her first several years ago for laughs, but now I keep coming back to her stories of dought Sookie Stackhouse - waitress, vampire date, and telepath.  What makes Sookie special is her attitude and brand of courage.  Anyone who has had a vampire lover or two, hangs out with weres, and braves the slings and arrows of a Louisiana country town like Bon Temps deserves plenty of respect.<br /><br />Now that vampire Bill is her ex-boyfriend, and temporary lover Eric is at arms length you would expect Sookie to have a few moments of peaces, but no such luck.  Her brother Jason has been bitten by a were panther and, come full moon, he crosses into the world of the shapeshifters.  He adapts well, but someone is hunting the weres of Bon Temps, and the panther clan suspects that Jason might be hiding resentments behind his winsome smile.<br /><br />Sookie tries to go to the rescue, but in the process winds up enmeshed in a power struggle in the nearby werewolf pack.  Alcide invites her to the funeral of the pack leader in an effort to influence members to favor his father, but the idea nearly backfires, leaving Sookie deeply disgusted with the whole thing.  And one top of that, someone tries to burn down her house with Sookie in it.  Possibly as revenge for the woman she had to kill in the last book, but it's hard to tell.<br /><br />As you can see, a lot happens here.  It would be a dark and serious tale, but Sookie, as narrator has a way of pushing back the darkness.  Almost making the story a Southern cozy until you remember that a quarter of her friends bite other people on a regular basis.  Don't fall for the marketing ploy that compares Harris with Laurell Hamilton.  Even when the story gets a bit spicy, it never approaches the steamy scenes of recent Hamilton writing, and Sookie has shown no interest in SM or corpse raising.  Sookie doesn't have a cause, she really just wants a normal life, but there doesn't seem to be one available.<br /><br />This isn't great literature, but enjoyable entertainment.  A pleasant pastime in the occult world of the rural South in a world where vampires are legal.  Heck!  Why not?nd Sookie has shown no interest in SM or corpse raising.  Sookie doesn't have a cause, she really just wants a normal life, but there doesn't seem to be one available. <br /> <br />This isn't great literature, but enjoyable entertainment.  A pleasant pastime in the occult world of the rural South in a world where vampires are legal.  Heck!  Why not?	2005-08-10
126663:US	53082946	R2VQB14UC4X0BB	1561586579	673081268	Taunton's Complete Illustrated Guide to Sharpening	Books	3	71	72	N	N	Falls Short	I have two books on sharpening.  Which is a lot when you consider that sharpening is more of a chore than anything else.  But it is a very important chore (second only to sweeping up), and one that can make woodworking a pleasure or a great pain.  Until you develop good, disciplined sharpening techniques your work will be spotty at best.  Don't get me wrong, I'm not a hand tool purist.  But one of the reasons I have so many power planes, routers, and shapers is that, for a long time I was a very mediocre sharpener.<br /><br />Thomas Lie-Nielson makes some of the finest planes in the world.  I have three, and each has proved out its value repeatedly.  Much of the reason I bought this book was to see what he had to say, even though my copy of Leonard Lee's 'Complete Guide to Sharpening' has stood me in good stead.  Unfortunately, Lie-Nielsen is a much better toolmaker than he is a writer.  His presentation is quite dry, and not as detailed as I would have liked.  And for some strange reason the photographer managed to 'miss' the action or make it difficult to puzzle out what was happening.<br /><br />In spite of this, Lie-Nielsen manages to explain somethings that Leonard Lee left out.  He also offers more discussion on shaping the steel as well as sharpening it.  His section on sharpening axes is a classic of straightforward clarity and brevity, for example.  But While I am a fan of Taunton's 'Complete Illustrated' series, this time their offering falls short.  Lee's book is half the price and every bit as useful	2005-08-06
131137:US	53082946	R26PBT7LXOSJWN	0345388666	68706377	The Shining Ones (Book Two of The Tamuli)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Troll Stopping for Fun and Profit	This adventure wouldn't be the same without the reappearance of Bhelliom, the rose with a bite.  Sparhawk threw it in an unknown ocean at the end of the Elenium, hoping to never see it again.  But events in Matherion have convinced the visiting Elenes that the situation is a bit too dire for a small company of knights, a mage, and a goddess.  Trolls are massing against the Atan legions, revolution dogs the steps of the Tamul empire, and everywhere you look legendary heroes and resurrected dead are raising chaos everywhere.  With it clear that at least one god is working on world conquest it is time to bring Bhelliom back into the fray.<br /><br />The reader will be surprised to discover that the Blue Rose is a great deal more than a powerful trollish toy.  In fact, it has its own personality and agenda and Sparhawk plays a very central part in its plans.  With Bhelliom on their side, the Elenes have a chance, but the odds still aren't very good.  Somehow the enemy seems to be able to counter everything they try, as well as throw in a few punches on their own.<br /><br />As the plot moves toward an earth-shattering crisis, Ehlana provides much of the comic relief as she instructs an emperor almost twice her age in the fine art of overthrowing his own government.  Also a source of comic relief is the courtship of Mirtai and Kring.  But the seriousness of the main plot sets the mood.  The more Sparhawk and Ehlana discover about the convolute plots around them, the more desperate the struggle becomes.  They face old enemies and new, betrayal and old hatreds will either kill them or make them stronger.<br /><br />This volume bogs down a bit in the middle as Eddings seizes an opportunity to inform the reader of a great deal of the history behind the current problems in a narration that borders on tedious and isn't absolutely necessary.  Even so the overall work is good with a conclusion that is flashier than Eddings' norm.  The characters flesh out a bit more (although one has a habit of speaking in dialect that makes my eyes cross.  If nothing else, one can say that this is a much better followup series than the Malloreon, which was at least a volume too long.ugh one has a habit of speaking in dialect that makes my eyes cross.  If nothing else, one can say that this is a much better followup series than the Malloreon, which was at least a volume too long.	2005-08-04
140255:US	53082946	R11BTR47EYIUDD	0596009151	948161090	Learning Unix for Mac OS X Tiger	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Unix For The Mac Without Snoring	It's no secret that I rarely review technical books.  The big reason for this is that I buy such books to either get a handle on software or hardware issues and tend to only read enough so that I can understand what the real techies are trying to tell me.  Sadly, gone are the days of my being a brilliant analyst and designer and only process and architecture are my lot.<br /><br />The arrival a few years ago of a Mac Titanium portable created an opportunity that I promised to take advantage of - sooner or later.  Finally, I decided it was time.  For those of you who don't know, laying underneath the Mac's glossy user interface is a very well implemented UNIX environment.  Thus my first goal was twofold - learn something of the Mac's software underpinnings and to refresh my leaking UNIX skills.  Nowadays, almost all is forgotten, other than nervous efforts at 'ls' and 'cd'.  When I discovered 'Unix for Mac OS X Tiger' I bought it, and I can honestly state that I read the whole thing. And even enjoyed it.<br /><br />Dave Taylor manages to take the reader through a tour of Unix as the Mac expresses it, showing the reader the marvels of the terminal command line.  While he never forgets to introduce the idiosyncracies of the Mac, the truth is that Unix on the Mac (aka Darwin) is pretty much a vanilla Unix, and the book is really an introduction to Unix.  And a pretty good one at that.  Taylor avoids the excruciating deep dives that many texts fall into, limiting himself to 250 pages of dense but readable discussion that will enable you to work in Unix on the Mac, although you won't be a wizard.<br /><br />Too often technical writers feel compelled to his the 1000 page barrier.  This book is a quarter the size.  If you want to know everything about vi or emacs, or study shell scripting than you will either want a thicker book, or several thinner books on you topics of interest.  Given the usual weight of my briefcase, I refer the latter. Taylor's book will take you through all the standard commands, help you set up your Xterm, and even introduce you to the vagaries of fink.  And it's readable enough so that you won't fall asleep in the middle of a regular expression.<br /><br />I have no qualms about recommending this book, especially if you are a novice Unix user who is only beginning to heed the call of his (or her) inner geek.ands, help you set up your Xterm, and even introduce you to the vagaries of fink.  And it's readable enough so that you won't fall asleep in the middle of a regular expression.    I have no qualms about recommending this book, especially if you are a novice Unix user who is only beginning to heed the call of his (or her) inner geek.	2005-07-31
142063:US	53082946	R1MYVWAEVDC0W0	0345383273	910064021	Domes of Fire (The Tamuli)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	And Now for the Rest of the Story	The Tamuli is the follow series to the Elenium, Eddings' first essay into the world of the Elenes,  It is some six years later,  Sparhawk is now Ehlana's husband and Prince Consort, Sephrenia and Vanion have withdrawn from the Elene kingdoms back to the Styric homeland, and Aphrael is incarnated as Ehlana's child Danae.  For a while things have been peaceful, but something strange is happening in the kingdom of Lamork.<br /><br />Suddenly ancient heroes start reappearing, agents are fomenting rebellion, and not a few mythical monsters are reappearing.  Sparhawk investigates and realized that the problem is even more widespread than was believed.  When he reports back to the Archprelate he discovers that the wave of trouble that is starting in the Elene kingdoms is under full steam in the Tamuli continent of Daresia.  He finds himself invited to Matherion to come to the aid of the Emperor.  Ehlana isn't about to let Sparhawk wander off by himself and Emperor Sarabian's invitation is used as the excuse for a full state visit.  Everyone goes.<br /><br />Once again Eddings starts out by using the plot device of a long journey across the kingdoms of Daresia as a time for some adventures, a lot of background filling, and the deployment of a new set of charaters.  He has become quite exper at this and this grand tour manages to be interesting and avoid repeating itself.  The last part of the book takes place in Matherion where immediate problems come to a head, old enemies return to the fray and, as an appetizer, we get one last battle to end the first volume.<br /><br />Domes of Fire is very nicely done.  It avoids the overdone repetitiveness that kept the Malloreon from being a success.  It is, so far, the best piece of writing that Eddings has done.  There is a great deal that is new, even though the core novel is straight out of the author's stylebook.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the series.	2005-07-29
149169:US	53082946	R3DERSIXLKVK6B	0786937424	338655174	Amber and Ashes (Dragonlance: The Dark Disciple, Vol. 1) (v. 1)	Books	2	21	30	N	N	Fatal Mission Redux	About a million years ago I used to follow the DragonLance series religiously.  Everything that Margeret Weis and Tracy Hickman wrote went on my shelves.  In their time they had a story line that combined both unusual and traditional plot and character work with considerable facility.  Eventually, the inevitable doldrums set in, the writing got repetitious and many of the characters became parodies of themselves.  Rather than continue with a series that was beginning to get on my nerves, I stopped reading the books.  Until today, when I decided to check in and see if there was some light at the end of the tunnel.  I chose Amber and Ashes because Weis was at the writer.<br /><br />The book is the first of a new story arc, one that takes place after Takhesis' defeat and the Minotaur invasion and the exile of the elves.  With the return of the gods to the world ancient conflicts return to life.  Chemosh, god of death, seeks power over more than his world of darkness and reanimated corpses.  He wants more direct access to the living and he seizes on Mina, once a servant of Takhesis, as a means of spreading a 'living' death and creating an army capable of contesting dominance over the planet.<br /><br />Chemosh easily sways Mina, who depressed by failing Takhesis at a critical moment.  In short order she wanders through the world making 'converts.'  On of these kills off an entire monastery except for his own brother, Rhys.  Rhys, with the help of a Nightshade, a kender with a talent for speaking to the dead, sets out to put an end to the plague of death that Chemosh has unleashed.  He finds himself enlisted in the service of Zeboim a goddess who has little love for Chemosh and his minions.  Rhys and Mina are headed for a confrontation, but they each have plenty to do before that fatal moment in a later volume.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the book simply does not live up to its plot.  After a slow beginning it never picks up the pace.  The spoken dialogue lacks spark and the book seems written at a monotone.  Both Rhys and Mina come off as weak characters - too weak for the major roles they play.  These are common weaknesses in game driven novels, but the DragonLance series was, initially, more plot driven than say the Vampire: Masquerade novels which depend more on a wealth of detail to satisfy their readers.  But this time the plot proceeds by fits and starts, interspersed with irritating attempts at divine monologue.<br /><br />I guess I'm going to wait another million years before my next visit to this series.and the book seems written at a monotone.  Both Rhys and Mina come off as weak characters - too weak for the major roles they play.  These are common weaknesses in game driven novels, but the DragonLance series was, initially, more plot driven than say the Vampire: Masquerade novels which depend more on a wealth of detail to satisfy their readers.  But this time the plot proceeds by fits and starts, interspersed with irritating attempts at divine monologue. <br /> <br />I guess I'm going to wait another million years before my next visit to this series. <br />	2005-07-25
150816:US	53082946	RBXORJBJ4TEQH	034537472X	96777321	The Sapphire Rose  (The Elenium)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Rose is a Rose is a Rose	With Bhelliom in hand Devid Eddings takes the plot of the Elenium into its final stanzas - curing Ehlana, undoing of Annias' plot to gain control of the Elene church, and the final defeat of the schemes of the god Azash.  Each of these is a story in itself, and the book is densely plotted as the final phase of Sparhawk's efforts falls into place.<br /><br />There is really only one serious problem with this book.  The weakest character in the series makes her debut - Ehlana.  Edding's, for some reason, tends to make his female romantic leads a strange combination of domineering and fluttery.  C'nedra, in the first two series, is the perfect example of a woman who is stuck the stereotype of the devious female.  Selfish, manipulative, irritating, and then occasionally she will step out of character.  Elhana could be C'nedra's sister.  She waken, maneuvers Sparhawk into marrying her, directly interferes in church politics like a pro, and then settles into a kind of wishy-washy background character.  Go figure.  The good news is that while Ehlana has a prominent role in the story, she actually doesn't have a very big part.<br /><br />The most interesting part of the book is really the struggle for control of the church, which is pure politics and sneakiness.  Annias' plans must be undone.  This means that Sparhawk and the church leaders opposed to Annias must play a complicated waiting game in the hope that enough evidence will be found to expose the priest as in league with Azash.  As Annias has managed to bribe himself into possession of a simple majority, this becomes a game of inches.<br /><br />Once the politics are over, Sparhawk is free to perform his real duty.  The world's only hope is that the Pandion knight can use his control of Bhelliom to work the end of Azash.  Not an easy task, and Sparhawk must overcome not only the Sapphire Rose, the the ancient troll gods before he can enter the city of Zemoch and confront Otha and Martell for the last time.  His companions once again are his squire Kurik, his friend Kalten, Sephrenia, the first knights of the Elene orders, and Talen, the thief.  The interplay of the characters is as good as always, but this is the third quest of the series and it gets a bit familiar at times.<br /><br />As usual, Eddings wraps things up tidily with a strong climax, throws some curious hints in the epilogue and then the curtain descends.  Of the three different series so far, this is both the shortest and the best written.  The Belgarion is, perhaps, the most original, but the Elenium is the work of a mature writer, and it shows.  As you might expect, this is only a temporary stopping point - we are promised yet another sequel.s squire Kurik, his friend Kalten, Sephrenia, the first knights of the Elene orders, and Talen, the thief.  The interplay of the characters is as good as always, but this is the third quest of the series and it gets a bit familiar at times.    As usual, Eddings wraps things up tidily with a strong climax, throws some curious hints in the epilogue and then the curtain descends.  Of the three different series so far, this is both the shortest and the best written.  The Belgarion is, perhaps, the most original, but the Elenium is the work of a mature writer, and it shows.  As you might expect, this is only a temporary stopping point - we are promised yet another sequel.	2005-07-24
153189:US	53082946	RC4KE7OC8UDP5	0345373529	206112477	The Ruby Knight (Book Two of the Elenium)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Trolling for Sapphires	After some innovative medical research (use violence when in doubt), some help from a nine year old, flute-playing sorceress, and a visitation from a dead king, Sparhawk finally knows what is wrong with Ehlana and how to cure it.  Now all that remains is finding the cure (Bhelliom, the sapphire rose).  Not only must Sparhawk retrace his steps, but he is due for a confrontation with some deadly sendings from Azash, and an argument with an extremely ugly troll.  One can only hope that Ehlana will live up to expectations and put a stop to Annias's efforts to become head of the Elene church.<br /><br />And so Sparhawk, Sephrenia, Kurik, and a small crowd of other knights set about a quest that in all likelihood will kill them all.  Of course, 'supposed to' and 'does' are two very different words, but they definitely have their work cut out for them.  Have not fear with enough enemy hacking, enemy magicking, and a bit of divine intervention hope will spring eternal.  After all, how else would Eddings be able to write the next volume of this story.<br /><br />Sarcasm aside, The Ruby Knight continues to prove that the Malloreon was just sophmore slump.  This time the story, filled with detail and personality, continues to be entertaining throughout.  More characters, honest and not will appear, and new friends increase the complexity of the novel without bogging it down.  Eddings is an up and down author, so there is always a hitch somewhere, but thus far nothing serious has materialized.  I wouldn't call The Elenium innovative writing, but the series is good fantasy, and very pleasant writing.	2005-07-22
158889:US	53082946	RUJ7HDP0GT5G1	0345367693	876972242	The Diamond Throne (The Elenium)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fresh Beginnings	I think the Elenium is is probably David Eddings best series.  The Belgarion comes close mostly do to its freshness as a story, but here the writing is solid, with a great deal of action and detail, the plot is interesting, and the Sparhawk, the main character has a great deal of depth.  The supporting cast is less deeply limned, but overall, the characters of the Elenium are better filled in than their facing models in Edding's earlier stories.  And, to be frank, this series is only a trilogy, so the writer doesn't do as much of the 'filling out' that caused the flaws in the Malloreon.<br /><br />Sparhawk is a Knight of the Church, recently returned from what was leterally an exile.  He comes to his order and quickly discovers that Queen Ehlana, who was his charge as a child, has been poisoned in suspicious circumstances.  Apparently the primate Annias saw her as an impediment to his own plans for wealth and power.  Having done away with her father for much the same reason, he has gone on to finish the job.  The poison is invariably fatal, but Sephrenia, a sorceress in the service of the Pandion Knights has set a spell that keeps Ehlana alive but frozen in time.  The cost of the spell is high, twelve knights must but up their lives, and each month one will die until Ehlana is cured or they are all gone.<br /><br />Sparhawk, Sephrenia, and several friends take up the quest, first to find what has poisoned Ehlana, and then to hunt down the cure.  As Sparhawk eventually finds out, the only hope is to use the power of Bhelliom, an ancient rose carved out of a sapphire by a troll.  The Diamond Throne traces the first part of this quest and introduces most of the characters at the center of the plot.  Sparhawk has made enemies during his years as a knight, and most of them seem to have come hunting for him.<br /><br />The Knights, Sephrenia, a little girl who uses a flute to talk, and young Talen the thief are the key actors in this volume and Eddings manages to make these rough and tumble members of the church militant fun to be around.  Even if they occasionally lop of the head of someone who irritates them.  There is an undercurrent of mutual respect and attachment that is subtle, but is preferable to the overplayed relations in the Malloreon.  Even if you are genuinely irritated at Eddings for the failings of that series, you should try out this new set, I think you will rediscover what you liked about Eddings.ers of the church militant fun to be around.  Even if they occasionally lop of the head of someone who irritates them.  There is an undercurrent of mutual respect and attachment that is subtle, but is preferable to the overplayed relations in the Malloreon.  Even if you are genuinely irritated at Eddings for the failings of that series, you should try out this new set, I think you will rediscover what you liked about Eddings.	2005-07-19
163632:US	53082946	R2K8URLLHERRFA	0345377591	581442498	The Seeress of Kell (The Malloreon, Book 5)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Game, Set, and Match	It's with a sense of relief that I can finally turn to the last volume in this series.  While the Malloreon is better written than the Belgariad, Eddings overplayed his hand in telling a story which is a derivative echo of its predecessor, and then using a repetitive architecture to expand the tale to five volumes.  Had this series been whittled down to four, or even three volumes it would have been easier than on the reader.<br /><br />Belgarion, C'Nedra, and the rest of those one the quest for their kidnapped child must now follow the last steps in fulfilling the prophecy that will enable Cyradis, Seeress of Kell, to make the final choice between alternate futures.  Two candidates exist for the God who will replace Torak - who was slain by Belgarion in the first set of books.  Errand, who has been in the care of Polgara and Durnik, will stand for Belgarion, the child of light, and Geran, Belgarion's own son is Zandramas's offer.  If Geran is chosen darkness will fall and Belgarion will face having to kill his own child.<br /><br />They voyage first to Kell, then to Perivor, and finally to Korim where the last clashes will be fought.  There is a complex set of requirements to be fulfilled before Cyradis can make her choice, and Zandramas is intent on making sure that there really is no choice.  Tense times come as Belgarath solves the last puzzles just in time and the find the altar in the place that is no more.<br /><br />Seeress of Kell is noticeably better paced than Sorceress of Darshiva.  It doesn't really bog down at all until after the choice is made, when Eddings proceeds to take 80 pages to wind down the tale in epilogue.  Again, it's not Eddings writing ability that is at fault, but his inability to know when to stop.  If you go on to the Elenium you will immediately discover that when Eddings keeps to three volumes and is carefully edited he is still capable of a story compels and entertains.  Again, the best thing one can say about the Malloreon is that even with flaws it is much better than many attempts at epic fantasy, which is a far more difficult genre than you might believe.s that even with flaws it is much better than many attempts at epic fantasy, which is a far more difficult genre than you might believe.	2005-07-16
166208:US	53082946	R3E5AQJ4BXTH1R	0345369351	409561679	Sorceress of Darshiva (The Malloreon, Book 4)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Just When You Thought It Would Never End, It Doesn't	[wry smile] By this point you are either an Eddings fan or you aren't.  I like him because of the things that often irritate other readers.  He doesn't create continuous flows of action, but uses a picaresque style that leads the reader back and forth across a continent on a quest that is going to take exactly as long as it is supposed to, no matter how you feel about it.  Edding's solution to writing a series that covers a nine month effort is to make it feel like it has been nine months.  If you don't like a perpetual stream of distractions you aren't going to like this book.<br /><br />This time the questers are following Zandramas through Melcena.  With and without Zakath, harried by demons and grolim, and generally perplexed by the mystery of finding a place that 'is no more.'  This book rises and falls on the banter between the characters as they alternatively criticize themselves and the people around them.  There are plenty of moments of humor and a few plot twists, but, like the third volume of the Belgariad, this is where the story bogs down.<br /><br />My theory is that Eddings always overwrites by one full volume.  He loves quests and he wrings every detail out of them.  It is only when he realizes that his characters have begun to parody themselves that he changes pace and finally heads for a conclusion.  This is an admitted flaw in a writer whose imagination I generally appreciate.  Parts of what he has done have extended the epic genre, and his decision to use approachable and even weak characters has made fantasy more appealing to those of use who are put off by flowery language.<br /><br />If you've gotten here, you have read eight full volumes of the author's work.  You are considering to reading the ninth, and I promise you that nothing much is going to change.  If you like Eddings you will have fun reading that, if not, you won't.  But if you don't read it, you will miss Ziss's pregnancy and Vella's teasing.	2005-07-14
172633:US	53082946	R2OBHRF55CY3OR	0345363310	443508473	Demon Lord of Karanda (The Malloreon, Book 3)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Here an Emperor, there a Demon	One thing you can depend on David Eddings about is that the plot always thickens.  He takes a great deal of pleasure in bringing odd mixes of people together and then letting the interactions take unexpected turns.  This volume starts out with Belgarion the unwilling guest of Zakath, Emperor of Mallorea.  For nine volumes Zakath has been Belgarion's opponent in one fashion or another, and now we discover that, while he may be headstrong and ruthless, he has positive qualities as well.<br /><br />Quite a few of them, for that matter, and Belgarion finds himself liking the Emperor in spite of himself.  As the reader will see in later volumes this is an important turn of events.  For now though Zakath is still a stumbling block - unwilling to let the Child of Light and his friends continue on their quest.  Prophecies have a knack for making sure things happen in Eddings world, and so it isn't all that long (well, two thirds of a volume) before the story moves forward again - right into even further crises.<br /><br />At this point Eddings introduces what I feel as an unnecessary embellishment - demons and demon lords.  It seems that several of the Grolim hierarchs, each desperate to gain control of the Sardion, have taken to conjuring up powers that are really beyond their abilities to control.  Since they are immortal and unbeatable (and utterly evil, of course) they operate like dei ex machine, dropped like bombs on the plot to create an excuse for more writing.  But the truth is, they aren't all that interesting as plot devices.  I prefer my bad guys to have more personality.  Heck, the prophecy has more personality than the demons.<br /><br />But unlike the Belgariad, the Malloreon shows no signs of bogging down in the middle.  Eddings has matured, than this series has moved past the coming of age themes of the original story.  The characters are adults, although they often don't behave that way.  The problems are more complicated as are the characters themselves.  So one can forgive the few missteps that Eddings does make.  Or perhaps not - opinions remain split about the Malloreon, although I have never quite figured out why.  I find it better written, but less grandiose emotionally.lves.  So one can forgive the few missteps that Eddings does make.  Or perhaps not - opinions remain split about the Malloreon, although I have never quite figured out why.  I find it better written, but less grandiose emotionally.	2005-07-10
176944:US	53082946	RMLY6IWAQ72VA	158846847X	833680997	Dark Ages Gangrel (DACN 10) (Dark Ages, 10)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Beast Is Never Far Away	This is an interesting change of pace.  In order to tell the Gangrel story in a setting more congenial to that vampire clan, Tim Waggoner turns from telling the extended tale of  the 'Christian' vampires that control most of Western Europe.  He switched sides to Jurgen's opponents, the tribes of Livonia.  There, in pagan Europe, vampires are less creatures to be feared by mortals and more seen as spiritual powers to be cultivated as near gods themselves.<br /><br />This is a rough world full of Tartars and Mongols - nomads and hunter-gatherers.  It is a world made for the Gangrel.  Nature is untamed, and the beast that lies in every vampire's breast lies much closer to the skin.  Here are Qarakh, khan of his loose tribe, and Deverra, a Tremere who has turned on her own clans ways and serves as a priestess for a small Livonian village.  Each has secrets, but they are bound together and now wait to see what Alexander, the ex-prince of Paris intends to do with the small army he has led into the East.<br /><br />Alexander, who has made few friends in his past, has received a quest to Christianize Qarakh's countryside.  Only a short while ago these primitive tribesmen defeated prince Jurgen's knights, and Alexander has even more reason to seek victory.  For him success means an opportunity to retake his position as Prince of Paris.  But Alexander is his own worst enemy.  His proclivity for dishonesty and betrayal turns of the support of those he must depend on, and  a direct confrontation with Qarakh seems unavoidable.<br /><br />If you a bit tired of the courtly dialogue of the past few volumes, Gangrel should come as a breath of fresh air.  These vampires are more likely to fight than orate, and the live close to nature and the earth.  While Gangrel are often irritatingly self-willed, they have depth and courage.  Those that cluster around Qarakh, Gangrel or not, have a natural nobility even if a rough nature hides it.	2005-07-07
178462:US	53082946	R34R9EMQ39GHQV	0345358805	109843857	King of the Murgos (The Malloreon, Book 2)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	On The Road Again... Again.	Having started out this series with several attempted (and successful) murders and a kidnapping it's no surprise that Eddings quickly starts Belgarion and his friends out on another extended quest - once again to confront the child of the dark and reunite the prophecies.  This time is supposed to be the 'last' time though and whoever wins, it is forever.  Eddings uses more of a puzzle format for the Mallorean, though.  Belgarion, Belgarath and the rest of the group are seeking a place that 'is no more,' and their clues are buried in ancient books of prophecy and legends.  That and a sparse handful of hints from Cyradis, Seeress of Kell.<br /><br />It should be no surprise that an early stop is Nyissa where betrayal is standard operating procedure.  Zandramas, the kidnapper of Belgarion and C'Nedra's son, was traveling in the company of Nyissan diplomats, and Polgara want to find out why.  In clearing that up Sadi, once Salmonissra's chief eunich, joins the group and they are off the the next stop, the land of the Murgos, where they are due for a meeting with Urgit, the Murgo king.<br /><br />What you expect is a repeat of the original confrontation with Urgit's father, the mad king Taur Urgas.  What you get is Urgit, mild tempered, and sick to death of the pomp and ritual of kingship.  Urgit isn't precisely a weak king, but he is caught between Grolim disciples and a Mallorean king determined to wipe his whole family out in revenge for past insults.  Urgit wants to be king of a nice, quiet kingdom, and nobody will give hime the change.<br /><br />Eddings, I've realized, is weak in character development (Belgarion is the only one who changes, and even he grinds to a halt.  What the author does instead is introduce characters to the narrative who a complex enough to fill narrative space pleasantly.  Thus Sadi and Urgit are both interesting characters in turn, but gradually, they each settle into a predictable pattern.  At which point other characters move onto the stage.  Between puzzles, new characters, and a certain amount of action, the plot moves forward enjoyably, even if it never plumbs great depths.he stage.  Between puzzles, new characters, and a certain amount of action, the plot moves forward enjoyably, even if it never plumbs great depths.	2005-07-06
184012:US	53082946	R2INTPCVX58P8	0345330005	656458265	Guardians of the West	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Never Trust A Prophecy	Here begins the second of David Eddings fantasy series' - Guardians of the West.  It is the follow up on his first series - The Belgariad - and uses the same characters in much the same settings (more of this series takes place in the Angarak kingdoms).  Depending on your viewpoint you will find this series inventive or repetition, funny or silly, slow paced or marvelously detailed.  I find it impossible to predict who will or will not like it.  For the record, I feel that, while the writing has improved considerably from the first set, characterization is fairly static, and, of course, much of the plot is borrowed from the Belgariad.<br /><br />It's about fourteen years after the fall of Torak, and Polgara, Durnik, Errand and the irascible Belgarath have set up housekeeping in the Vale of Aldur and are well on their way to becoming a typical family of sorcerers.  All of this is interrupted when word comes that the relationship between Belgarion and C'Nedra is on the rocks AND there is no heir to the throne of Riva.  Polgara comes to the rescue (or interferes mercilessly, depending on how you feel about 3000 year old aunts butting in).  But repairing the damage and getting an heir on the way creates even more problems than it solves.  Once again, conflicting prophecies awaken, this time with the birth of Geran, the heir to Riva, and the world teeters on the edge of disaster.<br /><br />The Bear Cult goes into high gear, the Orb warns of coming evil, and Geran is kidnapped.  Once again Belgarion and C'Nedra go on a quest, this time to save there child from being sacrificed to initiate the new reign of a Child of Darkness.  A race is on between two opposing forces.  Whoever fails to reach 'the place that is no more' on time will lose.  The instructions are hidden in countless books of prophecy which Belgarath must interpret and the party is subject to manipulation from both the Seers of Kell, and Zandramas, Geran's kidnapper.<br /><br />The writing is decidedly tighter in the Malloreon than it is in the Belgariad.  The early tendency to intersperse little dabs of action with endless discussion and peripheral side stories is gone.  However, so are some of the human touches.  Guardians of the West marches forward, telling what is a very complex set of events, but for all the time that is spent on C'Nedra's pain at the theft of her child, she never gets the respectful treatment that you would thing she merits.  And with so many characters crossing over to the new series, one would expect more development.  Other than some growth for Belgarion and Errand and the insertion of some new characters, the personality side of these books is very static.<br /><br />Even so, this series is still better than a great deal of the fantasy fiction that competes with it that it is easy to forgive it's faults.  It remains a comfortable sort of good vs. evil tale, told with a great deal of gentle (and not so gentle) sarcasm.  I would recommend it over many other efforts.tighter in the Malloreon than it is in the Belgariad.  The early tendency to intersperse little dabs of action with endless discussion and peripheral side stories is gone.  However, so are some of the human touches.  Guardians of the West marches forward, telling what is a very complex set of events, but for all the time that is spent on C'Nedra's pain at the theft of her child, she never gets the respectful treatment that you would thing she merits.  And with so many characters crossing over to the new series, one would expect more development.  Other than some growth for Belgarion and Errand and the insertion of some new characters, the personality side of these books is very static. <br /> <br />Even so, this series is still better than a great deal of the fantasy fiction that competes with it that it is easy to forgive it's faults.  It remains a comfortable sort of good vs. evil tale, told with a great deal of gentle (and not so gentle) sarcasm.  I would recommend it over many other efforts.	2005-07-01
187311:US	53082946	R3QIUC6OQ50GVN	0345338715	38271439	Enchanters' End Game (The Belgariad, Book 5)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Long Tale Comes To An End (almost)	Enchanters' End Game chronicles the climax to Garion's long quest to bring two conflicting prophecies back into synch.  As Child of Light, he and his friends have wandered across the Alorn kingdoms, ventured into Tolnedra and Nyissa, and now Garion, Belgarath, and Silk are in the Angarak side of the continent heading for the final confrontation with Torak.<br /><br />Pacing Garion is C'Nedra, who has rallied the armies of the West to provide what amounts to a distraction so that Garion, thousands of miles away can slip into Cthol Mishrak without the entire Murgo population trying to put an end to them.  For all the sarcasm and wit that the characters display, this is a grim struggle, and C'Nedra's forces will be caught between the massive armies of the Mallorean Emperor Zakath and Taur Urgas the insane king of the Murgos.  Levity or not many will die in the confrontation.<br /><br />Of the two story arcs, C'nedra's is the more interestingly told.  Garion's adventures are mostly hiding and running at a very forced pace.  His challenge is to keep his fear in check as he prepared for a duel that will kill one of the participants.  On the other hand, the Alorn kings and many friends surround C'nedra.  The preparations for the final battle are extensive, and many of the characters show unexpected sides.<br /><br />In retrospect, once this series slows down in Castle of Wizardry, it never quite regains its pace.  Eddings hadn't quite learned to control his efforts in this series, and his early rush left him lacking a bit of plot in the fourth volume of this series.  Enchanters' End Game recovers (nothing like a massive battle to perk things up) but Edding's will always be noted more for characterization and detail than for action.  But his next series, the Malloreon is more evenly written, so the pacing is much smoother.<br /><br />I tend to view these stories as comfort food for fantasy addicts.  While they lack something in the way of fast paced action and emotional range, they are genuinely entertaining.  I've reread them all several times and they always seem to bear up.  I wish everything I read was at least this well done.ing.  I've reread them all several times and they always seem to bear up.  I wish everything I read was at least this well done.	2005-06-29
190335:US	53082946	RDFIS6944TFFT	0345335708	917822488	Castle of Wizardry (The Belgariad, Book 4)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Walk, Don't Run	It is in the nature of David Eddings that, no sooner does the plot head for its climax, but he starts to slow down.  I think there is something in him that does not love endings.  So now that Garion, Belgarath, and Polgara have regained the Orb you would expect they would quickly go on the attack.  No such chance.  Eddings has grand plans, and we are going to get every detail.<br /><br />Belgarath is literally comatose from his battle with Ctuchik.  Getting him to safety and retrieving C'Nedra are the big priorities, since it is time for Garion to return to Riva and accept the throne.  And it is time for C'Nedra to present herself in that same throne room as the Tolnedran bride for the Rivan King.  Thus much of the first half of Castle of Wizardry is spent on various domestic scenes where either Garion is bewailing his new responsibilities or C'Nedra is having fits about marrying a kitchen boy from Sendaria.  This is comic relief before the tough get going, and there are many wry moments.<br /><br />Then suddenly Garion realizes that the real game is deadly and that many lives could be lost before his final meeting with Torak.  Enlisting Belgarath and Silk, Garion decides to skip the battles in between and head directly for the final confrontation, jilting C'Nedra and leaving Polgara in a spectacular rage in the process.  Now the story splits in two as Garion travels through Drasnia on the was to Torak's resting place and C'Nedra begins to rally the armies of the West in order to divide the attention of the Angaraks.<br /><br />This volume contains one of the most touching story arcs in this epic.  Garion, Belgarath, and Silk find themselves caught by Vordai, witch of the Drasnian swamps.  She forces Belgarath into a surprising bargain, one that beautifully displays Eddings ability to write something else besides light, sarcastic prose.  In a sense, this episode makes the wait worth it.<br /><br />As characters both Garion and C'Nedra do a lot of growing up in this volume.  Although Garion will always be a bit bewildered and C'Nedra will never be 'reasonable.'  But the requirements of the plot will put both of them and their relationship to the test.<br /><br />I enjoyed this book, but it is very much over-written.  Eddings frequently puts the plot on hold for side stories and long conversations.  Many of these are interesting, or at least funny, but there are times when you just which something would actually happen.  Eddings will never really break this writing habit, though it is sometimes mitigated.  As such, Castle of Wizardy may displease the impatient.always be a bit bewildered and C'Nedra will never be 'reasonable.'  But the requirements of the plot will put both of them and their relationship to the test.      I enjoyed this book, but it is very much over-written.  Eddings frequently puts the plot on hold for side stories and long conversations.  Many of these are interesting, or at least funny, but there are times when you just which something would actually happen.  Eddings will never really break this writing habit, though it is sometimes mitigated.  As such, Castle of Wizardy may displease the impatient.	2005-06-26
192691:US	53082946	R2T0XU924HFZFF	0345335457	562872590	Magician's Gambit (The Belgariad, Book 3)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Walls Were Made For Walking Through	Volume three of the Belgariad brings the first story arc, the quest for the orb, to closure.  It also complete the grand tour of the West that Eddings has been taking the reader through.  With Nyissan interference out of the way, Belgarath and Silk rejoin the rest of the party and reveal that the Orb has fallen into Murgo hands.  Ctuchik, an  old enemy of Belgarath is guarding the Orb in Cthol Murgos, and the wizard is willing to let him have for the moment.  There are more important things to do before fetching it back.<br /><br />Taking a shortcut through Maragor, where a lonely god weeps for his lost people, the party heads for the Vale, where Belgarath first learned to be a wizard, and Polgara grew up.  It's time for Belgarion to meet Aldur and even experiment with his new found (and uncomfortable) powers.  It's also time to start developing C'Nedra into something other than a very spoiled and dubious imperial princess.<br /><br />The next stop is the land (make that caves) of the Ulgos.  When gods were choosing out peoples, the Ulgos got left out.  After what is probably the world's most effective guilt trip they managed to get Ulgo to be their god.  As a result, they have become a very serious people about their religion - in a good way.  Belgarath is looking for a special Ulgo guide who can deal with solid stone walls, and he's quite willing to interfere in a religious rebellion to get what he needs.  C'Nedra is left safely behind, and the trek to Cthol Murgos to retrieve the orb is under way.<br /><br />In Magician's Gambit, Eddings' style crystallizes.  He will spend a lot of time on side adventures, details, and character interaction, only advancing the plot when he has to do so.  Later this will become the characteristic that will cause some people to become great fans and others to lose interest.  Because I like Eddings' sarcastic style, I enjoy the periods where almost nothing happens just as much as those times when the action really picks up.  It's a pleasant break from the high speed novels of modern fantasy.<br /><br />Eddings has created a very large world.  So large that two more volumes and another whole series will fit into it.  This interesting environment and the characters that people it make Eddings' work into the equivalent of literary comfort food for me.  If you've made it this far, you will want to read on.t's a pleasant break from the high speed novels of modern fantasy. <br /> <br />Eddings has created a very large world.  So large that two more volumes and another whole series will fit into it.  This interesting environment and the characters that people it make Eddings' work into the equivalent of literary comfort food for me.  If you've made it this far, you will want to read on.	2005-06-24
195823:US	53082946	R34UMGRX3WXDGD	0345461568	973171171	Sliding Scales: A Pip & Flinx Adventure	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Flinx Takes A Book Off	To be honest, I had some doubts about this new Pip & Flinx series after Flinx's Folly.  Somehow, Foster's effort to write a combination love story and suspense tale gets completely lost amidst the threats of the Order of Null and the impending doom that is reaching across space.  The end result was a nervous tale that never seemed to settle with Flinx falling steadily out of character.  More for old time's sake than anything else I decided to try the next in this particular adventure, Sliding Scales.<br /><br />This, however, is a completely different animal.  When Teacher, is AI driven ship suggests that he might need a vacation, Flinx actually heeds its advice and instructs it to find an interesting world where he will be free of the influences of everyone who is trying to make him ultimately responsible for the survival of the universe.  The computer selects Jast, a lonely planet in the middle of a region of space where both Humanx and Aan interests intersect.  The the biosphere is entirely composed of species, intelligent and otherwise, who have either one or no feet.  This slows things down considerably and the Vssey are intelligent, and technically adept, but they decide everything by committee, and take as much time as it takes.  Which drives the Aan presence on the planet insane.<br /><br />Flinx lands, and is promptly the subject of a murder attempt by an Aan who is hungry for status.  Flinx survives with no memory, and nearly dies on the desert when he is rescued by other Aan, from the Tier of Ssaiinn, an artists colony which is entirely unlike everything we know of the Aan.  In the meantime, a Vssey rebellion is fomenting (ever so slowly) and suddenly the Aan back at the capital find themselves the object of terrorist attacks.  Flinx has jumped into the midst of trouble again, but this adventure has many unusual twists.<br /><br />What really makes the story is all of the details of the Aan.  They have been the stereotypical villains for so long that actually discovering they have personalities is a surprise.  While some are painted as the ultra-aggressive, status-conscious types we've seen before, even the more militant Aan have some shred of 'humanity.' And the artists of the Tier of Ssaiinn are a delightful change as we discover that Aan can actually be both admirable and likeable.<br /><br />I'm not sure if this book is intended to advance the story arc about the evil from beyond the Great Emptiness or give the reader's a well deserved break before the story picks up again, but Sliding Scales works much better than its predecessor.  It's hardly the great American science fiction novel, but it is decent entertainment.  Whether you buy the hardback or decide to wait for the paperback, I think you'll find this an acceptible effort.t actually discovering they have personalities is a surprise.  While some are painted as the ultra-aggressive, status-conscious types we've seen before, even the more militant Aan have some shred of 'humanity.' And the artists of the Tier of Ssaiinn are a delightful change as we discover that Aan can actually be both admirable and likeable. <br /> <br />I'm not sure if this book is intended to advance the story arc about the evil from beyond the Great Emptiness or give the reader's a well deserved break before the story picks up again, but Sliding Scales works much better than its predecessor.  It's hardly the great American science fiction novel, but it is decent entertainment.  Whether you buy the hardback or decide to wait for the paperback, I think you'll find this an acceptible effort.	2005-06-22
197325:US	53082946	R3FG0PLJFPY7D1	0345335651	873766982	Queen of Sorcery (The Belgariad, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Out Of The Frying Pan Into The Snake	Queen of Sorcery is the second volume in this series, and the one where the story really takes off.  Now that we know the central players and have established their personalities and their goal, Eddings eases off on the bricks a bit and begins to introduce is to many of the cultures that people the seven kingdoms of Karanda.  As you will quickly discover, this is a world full of the strange, the eccentric, and even the downright funny.<br /><br />We are off again on the trail of Zedar, who has stolen the Orb of Aldur.  The first stop for Garion, Belgarath, Polgara, and the remaining questers is Arendia, home of several knightly classes that always teeter on the edge of war and a large population of serfs who live in grinding poverty.  Eddings will return to this theme of slavery and serfdom several times although it is not really a focus of the main plot.  What is clear is that the writer has strong feelings, and they color his characters.  For the better, I think.  In Arendia we will meet Lelldorin, an Asturian archer and all around hot head.  Then we meet Mandorallen, a Mombrate knight, and while not quite as crazy as Lelldorin, he takes his knightly code so seriously that it is hard to take him equally seriously.  Eventually the knight will win your heart, as do all the others.<br /><br />Next we're off to Tolnedra, where politics and money are both a religion and a way of life.  Garion finds that there is a Grolim under every stone and it takes all their wits for the team to make it out intact. Ce'Nedra, the spoiled imperial princess, decides to run away with Belgarath and Polgara (whom she refuses to believe are Belgarath and Polgara).  For a good bit of the story to come Ce'Nedra will make Garion's life a bumbling confusion, as he struggles to cope with his role, and sort out his feelings about being a sorcerer and the object of a prophecy.<br /><br />Finally we come to Nyissa, where people worship snakes, and poisoning is the state religion.  This is another bad time for Garion, who very nearly comes of age much faster than was planned.  It also goes a bit hard for Belgarath, whose quest for Zedar and the Stone come to a sudden hard stop against a tree.  All is not lost, but it is time for a shift in strategy.<br /><br />As you can see there is quite a bit of plot in Queen of Sorcery.  In the midst of this a young boy establish boundaries around ethics and intent, and continues to struggle with a fate he didn't choose.  Eddings spends countless paragraphs developing his characters an maintaining the frequently sarcastic dialog among the players.  For me, this banter is what sets Eddings' work apart from other, wannabe epic writers.  It doesn't always succeed, and ten volumes from now it will wear a bit thin.  But right at the moment it makes a long tale worth the reading.other bad time for Garion, who very nearly comes of age much faster than was planned.  It also goes a bit hard for Belgarath, whose quest for Zedar and the Stone come to a sudden hard stop against a tree.  All is not lost, but it is time for a shift in strategy. <br /> <br />As you can see there is quite a bit of plot in Queen of Sorcery.  In the midst of this a young boy establish boundaries around ethics and intent, and continues to struggle with a fate he didn't choose.  Eddings spends countless paragraphs developing his characters an maintaining the frequently sarcastic dialog among the players.  For me, this banter is what sets Eddings' work apart from other, wannabe epic writers.  It doesn't always succeed, and ten volumes from now it will wear a bit thin.  But right at the moment it makes a long tale worth the reading.	2005-06-20
198595:US	53082946	R12D9BRZY1D4XS	158846833X	652853598	Dark Ages Toreador (DA Clan Novel 9) (World of Darkness, 9)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	"Prithee milord, sup thee at my neck."	Following in the entourage of Lord Alexander (the ousted Prince of Paris), Rosamund of Islington finally arrives at the court of J&uuml;rgen in Magdeburg. Rosamund knows J&uuml;rgen from her first diplomatic assignment, when a gift from the Queens of Love went awry.  Rosamund was fascinated by J&uuml;rgen, and now finds herself torn between him and Alexander.<br /><br />Alexander has become completely besotted with Rosamund and can't abide anything but complete devotion and obedience.  Both of these traits do not come easily to the trained diplomat, and Alexander quickly reveals a petty and vengeful side that frequently takes more of his time than his efforts to get support in retaking Paris.  If he cannot control Rosamund he is quite happy ruining everything around her.<br /><br />J&uuml;rgen, who is everything that Alexander is not, is also torn.  Not only is he attracted to Rosamund, but he also has been drawn into the Hungarian wars with the pagans.  And at home he must defend himself from Alexander's political maneuvering.  No matter what he does do, something else suffers.<br /><br />If this sounds a lot more like a medieval historical romance than a vampire story you would be absolutely right.  If it weren't for Alexander's powers as a millennia old vampire, and the presence of a Tremere blood sorcerer, the tale could have been about and court in the dark ages.<br /><br />I've muttered about this before.  Vampires are occult creatures both grim and grisly.  There is an upper limit to how much they should imitate the life they have left behind.  And they need to do things that make readers think 'Vampire!' on a regular basis.  This means more than sipping delicately from a courtier's neck.  The decision is yours to make, but there is very little horror or occult in the halls of Magdeburg.  The book is well written, it advances the theme of the series, but it's more a tale for vampires, than it is a vampire story.	2005-06-19
199693:US	53082946	R1K2JJN1MYZ5AK	068987085X	495870178	Love and Death (Angel)	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	The Streets of L.A.	When one of those late night, seat of the pants, radio stations suddenly decides to take on all the demons and vampires in Los Angeles, it almost sounded too good to be true.  Angel was busy trying to solve the case involving a house that killed its inhabitants and vampires who died, but didn't dust.  But then reality sank in - to the vigilante teams now wandering the streets, guys like Angel and Lorne were just more monsters.  If L.A.'s nightlife was dangerous before, it's a disaster now.<br /><br />Of course, something else is rotten, and it's up to the team to figure it out in this late-in-the-series mystery from Jeff Mariotte.  Gunn and Fred aren't talking, Cordy reports that Connor is missing, and Wesley is hung up on Lilah.  And in the middle of all this emotional turmoil something old and incredibly alien is working a whole new kink on Valentine's Day.<br /><br />Something in me wonders when the various spin-offs of Buffy and Angel will finally seek their own quietus.  With both series over, books like this are overshadowed by the fact that everything in them is close ended.  It's quite hard sometimes to read a story like this and not see the characters in their final setting.  Especially when the story, as is the case here, takes place only a bit before that end.<br /><br />Mariotte has done well in the Buffyverse, and this is almost a very successful not.  Unfortunately, there is not was to resolve the undercurrent of tension in the character's relationships.  Mariotte must resort to a climactic hack and cast spells ending followed by some vague moralizing to bring the book to catharsis.  It left me feeling a bit sad for both the characters and the monsters.	2005-06-18
202809:US	53082946	RT6O3QSUKY42O	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	5	108	113	N	N	"We're all foolish at one time or another."	It's summer, I have a habit of keeping books forever, and thus it is time to take a retrospective ramble through some of my favorite books.  Like many people, pawn of prophecy was my introduction to David Eddings and I became fascinated with what first appears to be a coming of age story of Garion, a young boy in an old world, who grows up on a farm only to discover that there was quite a bit more to him than he expected.  This volume only drops vague hints about Garion's personal history, so I'm going to keep a bit mum about it.  Suffice it to say that, if he is important enough to have the two oldest sorcerers in the world watching over him, then he is very important indeed.<br /><br />The sorcerers in question are Belgarath and his daughter Polgara.  Both are fiercely determined and wield sarcasm even better than they do spells.  Danger threatens and a priceless artifact is stolen.  They take Garion on the road with them and the boy of 14 going on fifteen gets a whirlwind tour of his world as Belgarath and Polgara first chase the artifact and then confront the council of the Alorn kings.  While this is hardly children's fiction it spends the time to visit Garion's all too human confusion and fears.  His guardians are slow to explain things to him and like any adolescent of that age; Garion deeply resents being treated like a child and craves more attention than anyone has time to give him.  But he copes, and we gradually will come to understand that he is more than just a frustrated whiner.<br /><br />Eddings' strength is his talent for character building and sharp dialog.  The basic plot isn't all that original, but the characters make everything come to life.  You won't find extended paroxysms of ornate prose here.  Eddings' people are irascible with the whole slew of human foibles and good points.  The writer dotes on them, and despite the complex plot. There are long periods of small gestures and political nuance.<br /><br />This particular series, the Belgariad, is probably the best of Eddings' work.  As time goes on he does recycle bits and character types.  But any writer who counts 20 large volumes as output will do this, and I've seen far worse work done with much more fanfare.  If you like pointed dialog and narrative in a book that frequently forgets to take itself seriously you will find this series will quickly steal both your interest and your heart.  David Eddings may not be the next Tolkien, but is the next David Eddings, and that's quite good enough.t of Eddings' work.  As time goes on he does recycle bits and character types.  But any writer who counts 20 large volumes as output will do this, and I've seen far worse work done with much more fanfare.  If you like pointed dialog and narrative in a book that frequently forgets to take itself seriously you will find this series will quickly steal both your interest and your heart.  David Eddings may not be the next Tolkien, but is the next David Eddings, and that's quite good enough.	2005-06-15
204565:US	53082946	R167CGKYIABLZ4	0713488506	647005722	Marquetry Course	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Everything You Need To Know About Doing the Impossible	I recently started to think of doing some inlay work.  Nothing particularly fancy, but a little something to keep a box from being, well... just a box.  To me it's a rather daunting proposition, one that involves as much luck and magic as it does skill.  Marquetry, which is ithe creation of complex decorative forms out of veneer is high end inlay, and one of the true tests of craftsmanship in wood forms.  Not being one to start out with something simply, The Marquetry Course was the text I finally selected as a how-to book.<br /><br />Metcalfe and Apps do their best to present marquetry in a stepwise basis.  Text, photographs, and drawings get the point across so that the only hurdle is the fear of trying in the first play.  But marquetry isn't simple even when you understand how it is done.  If you want to be original, you are faced with twin challenges of design and skill, and then you have to install the design on an object which you also designed and built.  No mean accomplishment.<br /><br />The book presents a set of traditional designs and uses them in projects.  You will learn how to shade, construct, glue up, and finish each piece.  Some are well past the 'amateur' level, but others are surprisingly simple.  The book serves as inspiration as well as instruction, and I found a more than a few ideas that can be applied elsewhere as well.  So even if you decide not to inlay that amazing rose, the book will still be a valuable asset.	2005-06-14
209541:US	53082946	R2I2YFBGVHVL05	1588468321	984495288	Dark Ages Brujah (DA Clan Novel 8) (World of Darkness)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Death Is The Mirror Of Life	That we've made it all the way from Constantinople to the outskirts of Paris is no small wonder.  Vampires travel poorly in the light and require good support systems if they are not to alarm the countryside.  White Wolf's vampire series tend to ignore the human world that is not in service to the dark, but it is out there, and the wonderful world of light tight hearses and high speed trains is 700 years away.  But the pilgrims have made it, Anatole has exposed the heretics, and for now the focus shifts to the world within the gates.  There, Alexander rules as prince of the city, the devious Lady Saviarre is his consort, and baroque plots and power plays are the rule of the day.<br /><br />Prince Alexander may be 1000 years old, but his grip on the city has weakened.  Not far from Paris the Queens of Love plot revenge for an old wrong, sending both the Brujah Veronique and the Toreador Rosamund on separate diplomatic missions.  This is a deep game played by true ancients and the outcome will shake the night in Paris.  Veronique and Rosamund are both pawns in this game aimed at creatng weak points at which others can strike.  Veronique is the hardened manipulator who avoids the limelight, and Rosamund fills the part of ing&eacute;nue, aimed at Alexander's heart.<br /><br />And below the city in the vaults of the Nosferatu, Mnemach queen of the disfigured and unnerving undead begins to work her own revenge.  Veronique treads carefully, but her blood runs with political intrigue.  Unlike others of her clan, she has learned to be subtle as well as deadly as she plays for final advantage in the nights of Paris to come.<br /><br />As this series has moved north, it has become less a vampire story and more a tale of times that were, indeed, a nightmare of political power struggles - human or vampire.  In the backdrop living rulers drive crusades in a search for wealth and the Church declares it's own pogrom against the Cathars.  Other similar conflicts dot the European landscape, and if vampires didn't have unusual feeding requirements the characters of this story would be indistinguishable from the nobility they imitate.<br /><br />That is really my sole criticism of this volume and several others in the series.  I sometimes get the feeling that the players of the game are trying to turn it into a history game instead of a narrative that is founded on a deep layer of gothic terror.  these vampires are too much like there human counterparts.  I would like more spookiness, more occult, and just a bit more graphic violence.  That said, Myranda Kalis writes well and the ending of the book is almost everything one could ask.  My curiosity about the long term goal of the series is aroused as well.scape, and if vampires didn't have unusual feeding requirements the characters of this story would be indistinguishable from the nobility they imitate. <br /> <br />That is really my sole criticism of this volume and several others in the series.  I sometimes get the feeling that the players of the game are trying to turn it into a history game instead of a narrative that is founded on a deep layer of gothic terror.  these vampires are too much like there human counterparts.  I would like more spookiness, more occult, and just a bit more graphic violence.  That said, Myranda Kalis writes well and the ending of the book is almost everything one could ask.  My curiosity about the long term goal of the series is aroused as well.	2005-06-10
209820:US	53082946	RARFIRRPCG23Q	0441012930	890363402	The Tears of the Furies: The Menagerie #2	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	Never Pay The Ferryman	This should have been an easily available book, but for some reason it took forever to track it down.  As a result I remember nothing about the previous volume of this series, although I must have liked it enough to chase after it.  Golden is a long standing writer of popular horror and occult, having made his name writing Buffy stories.  Sniegoski is another graduate of the Buffy school of creativity, best known for his comic work.  The two have joined to create a new series about an eclectic team of occult guardians - The Menagerie.<br /><br />Head of the group is Arthur Conan Doyle who is reveals to be a great magician gifted with a very long life, among other things.  His team includes Squire - the worlds crudest hobgoblin and Eve - fashion junkie, vampire, and mother of us all.  Then there's Clay - the universe's oldest shape-changer, Graves - ghost of a gentleman adventurer, and Danny - teenager on the way to being a demon.  And finally, there is Ceridwen - Doyle's Faerie ex-lover.  Quite a motley crew.<br /><br />What they do is kill monsters while preparing for the battle at the end of the world.  In this episode Nigel Gull, Doyle's fellow sturdent and old enemy, tricks Doyle into going after the Medusa.  She has been brought back to life by Gull because he believes that only someone as ugly as the Medusa could love someone as ugly as him.  Not very good logic, but Gull has a plan.  On that involves having Doyle lay waste to almost all of Greek mythology.<br /><br />That is why the book doesn't quite succeed.  Every 25 pages or so another mythological monster trots on stage and gets wiped out.  In between, slews of people are turned to stone.  It gets repetitive.  And the writers mess with that mythology as needed until things don't quite make sense.  A six thousand year old vampire from Eden should have a better grasp of things Greek,  And nobody should think that dress boots are the right attire for hell.<br /><br />The dialog isn't wooden, but it doesn't flow all that smoothly either.  Character development is also less than what is needed for such an unlikely group of heroes.  So while this isn't a bad book, it never comes together for the reader.  I'm going to keep following the series because I like both authors, but I hope they reign in some of the story line so that the characters become more believable and the plot becomes more than 'see monster, kill monster.'doesn't flow all that smoothly either.  Character development is also less than what is needed for such an unlikely group of heroes.  So while this isn't a bad book, it never comes together for the reader.  I'm going to keep following the series because I like both authors, but I hope they reign in some of the story line so that the characters become more believable and the plot becomes more than 'see monster, kill monster.'	2005-06-09
213753:US	53082946	R2LE1566L2FX93	0380755025	242518417	Prince of Chaos (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Burning Your End At Both Candles	With the exception of a few weak steps in Sign of Chaos, Zelazny's Amber series has proven to be one of the enduring monuments of fantasy writing in the 70's and 80's.  They are the logical culmination of a focus on the concept of 'world builder' first investigated in Isle of the Dead.  In that volume world building was a spiritual activity and here, in the twin five volume series about Corwin and his son Merlin is is the politics of those who can wander the dimensions and 'find' worlds of their own design that is important.<br /><br />Prince of Chaos makes it clear that Order and Chaos are the great forces that drive events.  And that it is the inhabitants, not the manifestations of the powers that must keep the balance.  For all their instincts of preservation, the Serpent and the Unicorn would gladly have the universe destroyed if for one instant either side can rule unconstrained.  Merlin, born and raised in the Courts of Chaos, but true son of Amber, finds himself maneuvered into the precarious position of potential heir to the dark throne.  He despises the idea of wearing a crown, hates being manipulates, but his progress has been almost inevitable.  He is a piece in a very large chess game.<br /><br />Zelazny builds this volume as a puzzle with Corwin charged with finding all the pieces and fitting them together.  He must find his father, determine who among his relatives can be trusted, and make more than a few decisions of the heart.  He is a young man surrounded by players who have been in the game for hundred, if not thousands, of years.  And each victory means new threats to defend himself against.<br /><br />Zelazny manages to wrap up most of his loose ends while leaving considerable room for further amplification.  There will never be another volume in this series, but the reader has so much material to work with that there are countless alternate new volumes resting in the heads of inspired readers, caught in the pattern of fascination that drives the plot.  That these stories go on in our minds is the true charm of Zelazny's work.  With today's focus on action rather than plot the art of the storyteller  has almost disappeared from the genre.es the plot.  That these stories go on in our minds is the true charm of Zelazny's work.  With today's focus on action rather than plot the art of the storyteller  has almost disappeared from the genre.	2005-06-06
218566:US	53082946	R2DX7WWGNKW02S	0061052515	114801696	Maskerade	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	"When shall we thr...er, two meet again?"	Nowadays I don't get all that many opportunities to open a new Terry Pratchett book.  Countless years of reading him has left me patiently waiting for his next effort.  So the discovery of one that I've missed is a moment to be treasured.  So now, ten years after I should have read it, I've had the delight of reading Maskerade for the first time.  Even better, it's a Lancre witches tale, starring the indomitable Granny Weatherwax, and Nanny Ogg, the original Benny Hill.<br /><br />\\"Wait,\\" you exclaim, \\"Where's Magrat?\\"  Off to be queen, of course, leaving Nanny and Granny to party alone before the marshmallow toasting fire.  Nanny decides the Agnes Nitt, a large girl with a very large voice would make the perfect replacement.  Unfortunately Agnes has had another idea entirely.  Tired of being the girl with the 'great personality' and 'beautiful hair' she has left Lancre for Ankh-Moorpark were she is trying to make her living as an opera extra.<br /><br />In Ankh-Moorpork, it should come as no surprise, the opera house comes complete with a whacko ghost with a white mask, a huge chandelier, and, of course, a beautiful blond named Christine.  Agnes (now Perdita) can sing, but Christine cannot, so in no time we have a voice hoax, an angry ghost, and Nanny, Granny, and Greeb, the cat with the original bad attitude.<br /><br />Pratchett is merciless, as he lampoons witching, opera, publishing, cookbooks, show music, leaving home to make it in the big city, psychology, and growing up the hard way.  Trust Esme Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg to find the loophole in everything the encounter, outmaneuver the villains, and bedazzle the crowds.  Trust pratchett to leave no opportunity for wry humor unturned.<br /><br />Agnes/Perdita is a great character on her own.  Too fat to be anything else but a 'nice' girl she also has a mind almost as sharp as Granny Weatherwax.  Agnes doesn't want to be a witch because that is almost the only career opportunity Lancre has for someone with brains and generous proportions.  But neither does she want to be a bump on a log.  She has a knack for seizing those opportunities that appear, and enough sense to make it through her own identity crisis.<br /><br />While this isn't one of Pratchett's tour-de-farces, it is an excellent effort, one that you will relish for some time to come.  The Lancre stories are consistently the most humane and personal of his efforts, while the Ankh-Moorpork tales tend to hand grander scopes and characterizations.  Maskerade sits smack dab in the middle on an elephant all it's own.  Have fun!ith brains and generous proportions.  But neither does she want to be a bump on a log.  She has a knack for seizing those opportunities that appear, and enough sense to make it through her own identity crisis. <br /> <br />While this isn't one of Pratchett's tour-de-farces, it is an excellent effort, one that you will relish for some time to come.  The Lancre stories are consistently the most humane and personal of his efforts, while the Ankh-Moorpork tales tend to hand grander scopes and characterizations.  Maskerade sits smack dab in the middle on an elephant all it's own.  Have fun!	2005-06-02
222971:US	53082946	R1ZH8E5LF7PVV9	0449149919	730676187	Lost Boy, Lost Girl: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Remembrance Of Things Past	Lost Boy, Lost Girl begs the question of what horror really is.  Peter Straub as writing a wide spectrum of books.  True scary horror like Floating Dragon (one of my all time favorites) and gems like this one where no blood is shed on stage and despite the backdrop of both a past and present serial killer is really a piercing look into a mechanism that can frighten or delight.<br /><br />Tim Underhill, a successful writer returns to Millhaven when his sister-in-law commits suicide.  He finds that his brother Phillip is more concerned about the effect of Nancy's death on his career than he is about its effect on his own son, Mark.  Only a short time later Tim returns again.  This time to look for Mark, who has disappeared in the midst of a serial killer scare.  What he finds is the story of a youthful obsession with a neighborhood house where another killer had lived twenty years before.<br /><br />Somehow the mystery of the house led to Nancy Underhill's suicide and Mark is determined to find out how.  The story switches from Tim's narration to Mark's story as piece by piece the story comes out - old insanity, shame, and guilt.  An exquisite burden with a hidden, and astonishing payoff.  At first you will think this is a coming of age tale similar to Stephen King's It, and then you will decide it isn't.  But everything comes full circle and Mark will be transformed and Tim will find a new faith as new and old are woven together.<br /><br />It is hard to discuss this story without giving too much away, but the underlying theme is the persistence of memory (if I can steal a phrase from Dali).  People and events do not simply happen and disappear, some part continues.  Perhaps as ghost or atmosphere, perhaps in us, or perhaps as something waiting for an opportunity for fulfillment and closure.<br /><br />Straub's written is exemplary - carefully chosen prose, changes of viewpoint that are deftly managed, and characters that are hauntingly vivid.  If you come here expecting traditional suspense and bloodletting you may be disappointed.  Or unnerved in a way you have never been before.  We are invited to be frightened, to wonder, and even to be uplifted.  The choice is in the mind of the beholder.here expecting traditional suspense and bloodletting you may be disappointed.  Or unnerved in a way you have never been before.  We are invited to be frightened, to wonder, and even to be uplifted.  The choice is in the mind of the beholder.	2005-05-30
223286:US	53082946	R3DAGJ6QXHU99D	0688087264	278612385	Knight of Shadows	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Why Is the Dwarf Always The Bad Guy?	Zelazny manages to break out of his own pattern for a bit and some of the fog that moved in during Sign of Chaos begins to dissipate.  Caught between the maneuverings of the Pattern and the Logrus, Merlin finds himself trapped and sent on a knight's quest in which he is force to make choices that will change the balance between the two forces.  Pattern ghosts haunt his passage, and Merlin is hard put to determine who is real and who is just a memory.<br /><br />The key to the remaining story is the imbalance between the Courts and Amber which may unleash a series of events that threaten all of shadow.  Merlin grows increasingly frustrated with the unending interference in his own life which keeps him perpetually at risk.  Surrounded by arcane signs, warring wizards, and exploding castles Merlin would just like to enjoy life for a while but his efforts at hedonism simply dig him in deeper.<br /><br />Knight of Shadows still follows the 'travel a bit then fight a bit' pattern, but gradually the busy field of characters is starting to make sense.  With a sigh of relief the reader can relax and enjoy the twists in Merlin's adventures as more than one character performs a perfect turnabout just so we will have to keep guessing at the real villain right until the last confrontation.	2005-05-30
229808:US	53082946	R3KEBBRWUJ33WV	0380896370	951602171	Sign of Chaos (Amber Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cast Of Thousands	Sign of Chaos is the critical moment when the story line (of which this is the eighth) blurs out for a while.  It's not a bad book by any means, but Merlin's story is one of an ever-increasing number of people who want to either kill him or run his life for him.  This book is that critical mass when there are so many characters to keep track of that small minds like this reviewer's tend to shut down.<br /><br />Fittingly enough, the book starts out with Merlin and Luke trapped in the Mad Hatter's Tea Party Bar, where the previous volume left them off.  A psychedelic Mickey has turned Luke into a hallucination machine and it takes both ingenuity and chemistry for Merlin to take his leave.  He makes it back to Amber only to discover that he has a new, and beautiful aunt.  Who just as promptly disappears, leaving Merlin once again in the clutches of an old friend.<br /><br />Along the way Merlin picks up Mandor, his older brother on the Chaos side, and Jasra, who is now a 'friendly' enemy instead of a coat rack.  This is about where characters and plot get so intricate that you may wish you had been keeping score from the beginning.  Zelazny is merciless, captivating his readers at the same time he is confusing them.<br /><br />By way of personal history, I took a several year break from the series at this point, picking up the last two volumes when the appeared in paperback.  You may feel like doing the same thing, but there are only two more quick volumes to go and you will be a member of the I Love Amber club, a very exclusive group of folks.	2005-05-24
233753:US	53082946	R3GJWOKI4OQNS	0380896362	716993975	Blood of Amber (Chronicles of Amber: The Merlin Cycle, Book II)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Out Of The Frying Pan And Into The Pattern	Merlin starts this volume by breaking out of a locked cave, challenging a cave demon, and spending his rest period watching a battle at the Keep of the Four Worlds while chitchatting with a deserter.  So much for idle relaxation - Merlin keeps frantically jumping from one death threat to another always avoiding the falling horde or slashing claws by a hairs breadth.<br /><br />Blood of Amber reveals a layered series of plots all of which want Merlin either dead or under close control.  Relatives, friends, and potential mates all are suspect while the fate of Amber hangs in the balance - and perhaps the fate of all that lies in shadow as well.  For the alternate Pattern created by Corwin to stave off the advance of Chaos has begin to create reverberations of its own and shadow storms are beginning to wreak havoc.<br /><br />At some point, the reader will realize that all the intricate moves that comprise the action in Blood of Amber are getting too rapid to keep good track of.  At this point one must simply go along for the ride from wasteland to wonderland.  It is the nature of Zelazny's writing that this remains fun, rather than dissolving in the same chaos that threatens Amber.	2005-05-20
233853:US	53082946	R2MFI55DCDYMRV	0312282664	607662132	The Dragon King's Palace: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A Sweeping Visit To Medieval Japan	Welcome to the later days of the Tokugawa Shogunate.  The Portuguese had come and gone, samurai now used guns in battle, and gradually the strength and vitality of the times was ebbing away.  Sano Ichiro, the Shogun's Most Honorable Investigator spends as much time dealing with the devious political maneuvering of opponents like Chamberlain Yanagisawa and Police Commissioner Hoshina - all trying to influence the decisions of a weak and effeminate Shogun whose main virtue is his love for his mother.<br /><br />Their attendance commanded, Sano's wife Reiko, her friend Midori, and Lady Yanagisawa must accompany the Shogun's mother on a pilgrimage to Mount Fuji.  Almost at the mountain their entourage is attacked, the ladies kidnapped, and the rest left dead.  A little while later a note is posted on the gates of Edo - if the Shogun fails to execute Hoshina, the Honorable Lady Keisho-in will be killed.  Sano and Yanagisawa become unwilling allies, one trying to save his wife, and the other his lover.<br /><br />Sano's detective skills are severely tried as he races to save the lives of the women, hampered as much by a frantic Shogun as he is by the lack of facts.  Far away from Edo, Reiko's wits and bravery are tested to their maximum as she and her friends face a man driven mad by his own grief and guilt.  No matter how this drama ends, it will have far reaching consequences for the survivors.<br /><br />Laura Joh Rowland combines her natural storytelling ability with a fine eye for the details of medieval Japan.  The city of Edo, the hallways of the palace, and the homes of the players all seem to leap to life and the reader learns Japanese sociology and history while being entertained by a story that has as many twists and turns as Japanese bureaucracy does.  All of the Sano Ichiro stories have a serious side, but the Dragon King's Palace touches on the pivotal issues that drove Japan into crisis.  We see the samurai world changing before our eyes, and Rowland pulls very few punches.<br /><br />I recommend the entire series, but The Dragon King's Palace is one of the best, a tightly woven story of suspense and mystery.pulls very few punches. <br /> <br />I recommend the entire series, but The Dragon King's Palace is one of the best, a tightly woven story of suspense and mystery.	2005-05-20
234548:US	53082946	R1Q337YM2NJT	0380896354	449508997	Trumps of Doom (Chronicles of Amber, No. 6)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Like Father, Like Son	Well, not really...<br /><br />After a five year lapse, roger Zelazny returned to the Amber series that had done so well before.  One thing that you will notice in reading these is that the author has matured considerable.  If the first five volumes, the story of Corwin, Prince of Amber are a bit simplistic and mostly a fantasy adventure story,  this return to Amber is much richer in personalities and sub-plots.  Fans who have followed the series so far will find they are in for an even bigger treat.<br /><br />This time around the narrator is Merlin, son of Corwin.  He has taken up residence in earth, gone to college, and even worked as a computer designer.  With his father gone wandering, Merlin's connection to Amber is slight.  But someone has made an attempt on his life for the past eight April 30th's and Merlin has decided it is time for a change of venue.  But not before an ex-girlfriend has her head bitten off and a mage has made an attempt on his life.<br /><br />Merlin returns to Amber to discover that this time April 30th isn't enough and that at least one someone is intent on his life.  Somehow his best friend is involved and his royal aunts and uncles also come under fire.  And Ghostwheel a construct he has created in shadow has developed self awareness, and a nasty sense of self preservation.  To put it simply, Merlin is in serious trouble, and no one seems able to hlp him out.<br /><br />The story shifts from place to place with considerable speed as Merlin tries to find the pieces of the puzzle and goes from one crisis to another.  He lacks his father's more irritating traits, but has a tendency to jump into things headfirst without much planning.  Of course, he is quite a bit younger than Corwin, which is both his charm and his Achilles heal.  You will meet both old friends and new as the story develops, and see Amber through a different set of eyes.<br /><br />If I have a criticism, and I really don't, it is that Zelazny triggers the ending to quickly and suddenly you are in a whopper of a cliffhanger.  This was intensely frustrating back when I has to wait for the sequel, but a wise reader will have allg to quickly and suddenly you are in a whopper of a cliffhanger.  This was intensely frustrating back when I has to wait for the sequel, but a wise reader will have all	2005-05-19
235750:US	53082946	R32KABBK9J3TUW	1558704280	180304014	Measure Twice, Cut Once	Books	4	14	16	N	N	I Was Hoping For A Bit More	I don't know about you, but after years of hanging around serious woodworkers, constantly tuning and improving expensive equipment, and buying measuring tools accurate enough to build a space shuttle, I've come to the conclusion that accuracy is a goal never quite achieved.  And that is if you are lucky.  I can't tell you the number of times I've cut four boards of 'precisely' the same length, run them through a locked down finger joint jig, and managed to produce a box that is 1/16th of an inch wider from side to side than it is from front to back.  So when I found Jim Tolpin's book I grabbed it on the hope that it contained the one secret I had missed.<br /><br />Unfortunately, if you've spent three years woodworking you already know most of what is here.  Tolpin's secret is simply the rigor of working through stages of drawing and then cutting to the drawing.  Now I already use a drawing package to lay out work, so I can reel off life size diagrams that tell me everything is 1000th's.  And I find it far more accurate to use the diagrams for assembly and rough measurement and fit every piece by hand.  If for no other reason than the tendency of wood to change size with temperature, moisture, and the will of God.  Tolpin's explanations are helpful if you don't use a design methodology at all.  But if you follow his advice slavishly, you will through out more wood than you should.<br /><br />What I did find very useful is his final section on what to do when you really don't get it right.  Several of his tricks for changing the dimensions of a piece of wood which is the wrong size at the wrong time will save you the cost of the book in one cut.  These aren't necessarily easy techniques, but they are far better options than giving up.  I also found the pictures of some of his more exotic measuring tools very interesting.  Although it will be a long time before I spend $200 on a depth gauge.  There is a good section on proportion as well.  Tolpin does describe some jigs, but there aren't any plans for them.  For those you will have to look elsewhere.<br /><br />I also wish Tolpin had spent some time on computer aided design - at least enough to show what it can do.  More of us already have the equipment around, and it can save a lot of time and erasing.  Still, if you are just starting out by yourself, without access to training, this is a useful volume to have on hand.  It gets you past the point of thinking that creating a cabinet is a combination of magic and pure luck.e jigs, but there aren't any plans for them.  For those you will have to look elsewhere.   <br /> <br />I also wish Tolpin had spent some time on computer aided design - at least enough to show what it can do.  More of us already have the equipment around, and it can save a lot of time and erasing.  Still, if you are just starting out by yourself, without access to training, this is a useful volume to have on hand.  It gets you past the point of thinking that creating a cabinet is a combination of magic and pure luck.	2005-05-18
241026:US	53082946	R1JWSWQSMQOH3C	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	A New Tale For the Navaho Inn	Tony Hillerman is another author who has the knack of writing a series of novels over a long period of time and almost every one is a gem.  Choosing to use the Arizona reservation life of the Navaho and Hopi people as the setting for his detective stories.  Writing in an unassuming style of the adventures of Sargeant Jim Chee and Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn, the tales build on legends, customs, and the people themselves, Hillerman has created a whole genre of mystery stories that has kept readers entertained for decades,<br /><br />Skeleton Man blends the sudden appearance of long lost diamonds, an almost legendary plane crash, and tales of a shaman living in the Grand Canyon together.  Jim Chee helps a friend to defend a relative who is suspected of murder after appearing in a trading post trying to pawn a $20,000 diamond.  The diamond stories recall the story to one of the first major plane crashes in US history.  And the plane crash becomes the basis for a more modern story of greed and dishonesty.  And everything will bring us back to the Grand Canyon, where all the seekers come to find the truth.<br /><br />Providing some comic relief, and a great deal of human interest is the quirky relationship between Jim Chee and Bernie Manuelito.  Regular readers will know that these to have been on an off for several volumes, but now they are engaged.  Trying to keep their professional lives separate from their romantic efforts lead to many wry moments.  Both are sympathetic characters and richly deserve each other.<br /><br />Skeleton Man is a mystery that is pretty much solved long before the end, and so is more of an adventure story than a complicated whodunit.  It's not quite a cozy, but definitely is comfortable reading.  And Hillerman's blending of Indian culture and detective novel is often an easy way to discover things about the Navaho and Hopi that makes them more real to those of us who lived in the sheltered confines of large cities.<br /><br />Hillerman stories pretty much stand on their own, so while knowing the series deepens what one finds, it isn't necessary to read them in a particular order.  Dive in where you will and expect to enjoy yourself.tories pretty much stand on their own, so while knowing the series deepens what one finds, it isn't necessary to read them in a particular order.  Dive in where you will and expect to enjoy yourself.	2005-05-14
244179:US	53082946	R2JBHXWQVSCIKM	1588468313	414876370	Dark Ages Malkavian (DA Clan Novel 7) (World of Darkness)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Prophet, Madman, Vampire	In the skies over Paris a comet flares in the skies and on the streets below fear reaches the hearts of human and vampire kindred. Rumors that Cain has returned to save his faithful and damn the rest run rampant, creating a nightmarish atmosphere that sets vampire against vampire and tests the faith of both the righteous and the heretical.  Into this turmoil comes Anatole, determined to oppose the Cainite heresy, and Zoe, his adopted childer, who desires to understand the sources of Anatole's belief as she struggles with her own nature.<br /><br />Alexander, prince of the city, finds himself caught between the comet's effect on his consort and his duty to his court.  He has allowed Anatole to return and permitted a heretical bishop to give a series of lessons, little suspecting that the result would be disagreement, debate, and even riot.  Among the pilgrims outside the city the same strife is echoed as Malachite welcomes his followers into safety and then finds that his own quest is driving him in unexpected directions.  The dream awaits the dreamer as the sky burns.<br /><br />Having lived through one novel told from the point of view of a Malkavian, I have some qualms in picking up this one.  But Ellen Kiley has opted for a portayal of Anatole that is often considerably saner than the vampires around him.  In fact, his defense of his faith in the face of a powerful Lasombran bishop is a lesson in clarity.  Zoe is gradually coming into her own powers, and the two of them always seem to fine a way to carry through a maelstrom of events.<br /><br />This is very nearly a perfect World of Darkness novel.  All of the characters are interesting, many themes find a temporary resolution and then move on, and there is action aplenty.  My one complaint is that the theological argument between Anatole and Bishop St. Lys is overdone.  On the one hand I appreciated the added understanding of why Anatole and Malachite are at odds with the heretical Cainites, but I could have lived without all the fine grained details of the argument.  I found myself occasionally skipping around.<br /><br />But theology aside this is a very good chapter in the story of vampires as they lived before the Masquerade - before kindred and kine became more of a business than a dark and terrible story.ave lived without all the fine grained details of the argument.  I found myself occasionally skipping around. <br /> <br />But theology aside this is a very good chapter in the story of vampires as they lived before the Masquerade - before kindred and kine became more of a business than a dark and terrible story.	2005-05-11
245917:US	53082946	R1DFA9SA7YZQ8R	0843947527	402076302	The Deceased	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Voice of the Turtle is Heard in Our Land	I find this a difficult book to describe.  Tom Piccirilli is a writer who has a knack for using horror for his own purposes.  Within each novel is an element which seems sometimes biographical, sometimes philosophical, and may border on a different kind of horror entirely.<br /><br />Ostensibly, The Deceased has one of the standard plots of horror fiction 'the return,' where the main character returns to a place that was once home as well as the site for some unresolved terrible event or worse.  In this case it is Jacob Maelstrom, a horror writer who comes back to the house where his sister killed his brother, both parents, and then herself.  As a writer he has always lived in the shadow of his brilliant father.  Two women unexpectedly join him, Lisa, the secretary of his agent, and Katie, who wants to write her thesis about Jacob.  No surprise, horrible things happen, as the past tries to recapitulate itself in the present.<br /><br />But the real stories are internal.  Incest is Jacob's major theme, as the broken down relationships in his family reflect the intellectual incest of a father who somehow vampirises his own son's creativity.  Katie is caught in a web of crises due to a child lost in pregnancy and the fatal end of a relationship.  Lisa is confronting a child as well, hovering on the bring of an abortion.  Thus, the entire plot is embedded in a false fecundity that surrounds the house with the products of Jacob's imagination.  Something, somewhere, waits to be born.  Is it Jacob or a final, terrible event?<br /><br />And through this, like comic relief, wanders a turtle that seems to serve no purpose but to be underfoot.  Is is an ancient Christian symbol of the devil, a Chinese symbol of longevity, a fertility sign?  Or, equally likely, is it an easter egg planted just to trip the reader up the same way it keeps tripping the characters.  Tom Piccirilli's mind is such that it may very well be all of the above.<br /><br />So don't expect a 'normal' horror story.  Instead, this tale lurches between poetry and terror, shame and revenge.  When all is said and done, it will leave you puzzled and thinking rather than stunned.  A different kind of horror.' horror story.  Instead, this tale lurches between poetry and terror, shame and revenge.  When all is said and done, it will leave you puzzled and thinking rather than stunned.  A different kind of horror.	2005-05-10
249458:US	53082946	R2DNFPEOULNVLT	0060591781	378357648	The Serpent on the Crown (Amelia Peabody Mysteries)	Books	5	40	48	N	N	Once Upon A Time In The Valley Of Kings	I confess there is a real comfort in finding a new book by a favorite author.  Familiarity in these cases doesn't breed contempt, but surprise that a writer can continue a series of some sixteen volumes and still stir the interest of the reader.  In fact, on reflection, some of Elizabeth Peters earlier efforts were the ones where one's patience was most tried.  Gradually, as Amelia Peabody's clan took shape and developed both individual characters and a keen awareness of their own foibles the stories have developed a polish which has never faded in the intervening years.<br /><br />The Serpent On The Crown brings us once again to Egypt and the Valley of the Kings, where the Emersons prepare for the 1922 season of excavation and research.  As sudden visit in the night leaves Amelia, her husband Radcliffe, and their children Ramses and Nefret in the possession of a mysterious gold statuette of incalculable worth, Emerson having sworn to the woman who left it with them to end the curse by returning it to its rightful tomb.<br /><br />Easier said than done in the Valley of the Kings where tombs are more common than camels.  While the statuette is unmistakably from the era of Tutankhamon few such burials are known.  Undaunted, Emerson sets about three excavations at once, starts investigation in Cairo and even far off London, and even goes so far as to bring in his brother Sethos, the master thief.  With great scurrying on all fronts we know that, once again, the Emersons have found trouble, and sooner or later there will be a body.<br /><br />As usual in a Peters mystery, comedy and the serious job is investigation mix perfectly.  Chicanery abounds, there are villains under every rock, and secrets in even the most barren of tombs.  This is a cozy, but a cozy in the best sense, with enough action and plot to carry the reader's interest straight through to the end.  For those that are just starting out this book stands well on its own.  Peters is quite good about slipping the reader just enough information to keep one from feeling lost.  But by all means start from the beginning if you can and get to know one of the strangest families in detective fiction.ipping the reader just enough information to keep one from feeling lost.  But by all means start from the beginning if you can and get to know one of the strangest families in detective fiction.	2005-05-07
252619:US	53082946	R3JYM3P3Z4HQGE	045146009X	694273282	Sister of the Dead (The Noble Dead)	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Blood Relatives	I picked up Dhampir, the first volume in this series, on a whim.  It has turned out to be one of the better vampire series in recent memory.  The Hendees display considerable writing skill, as well as an ability to craft elements that are vampire commonplaces into a story that has more than a little originality.  When we first met Leesil and Magiere a long time ago there were an unlikely pair running as vampire killer scam in a world vaguely reminiscent of Medieval Hungary and, of course, Transylvania.<br /><br />But their scam backfires when they are set on the trail of a real vampire we find that Magiere is a Dhampir - human child of a vampire - with terrifying skills and a destiny that won't let her go.  Half-eleven Leesil and his dog Chap (a canine with an agenda all its own) are her accomplices.  In short order they really are vampire killers, inn owners, and finally, with this volume they are on a quest to find out the truth behind their history.<br /><br />In Sister of the Dead, Magiere returns to her roots to find out about the vampire that fathered her on her unwilling mother.  Joining them on this quest is Wynn, the apprentice wizard from Thief of Lives.  And following behind them are two vampires.  Welstiel is one(...)who knows why Magiere was created and has his own uses for her.  The other is Chane, who loves Wynn almost as much as he loves blood - maybe more.<br /><br />Terrible things follow them as they work their way to Magiere's village and then on to the lair of the blood wizard who worked her birth.  Outer conflict is balanced by inner.  Chap confronts his true nature, Magiere and Leesil explore the relationship that has grown up around them, and Wynn must deal with an inconceivable reality where the woman she most admires and the man she once loved are both monsters.<br /><br />With each volume the tale gets richer and more detailed.  All of the characters gain the reader's sympathy, and the book goes by a little too quickly.  If you are looking for something that stays in genre but with an original flair that quickly becomes compelling try this series out.  You'll find yourself waiting impatiently for the next volume.re but with an original flair that quickly becomes compelling try this series out.  You'll find yourself waiting impatiently for the next volume.	2005-05-04
258480:US	53082946	R3MUV7UWHUP0I9	1931082723	140297629	H. P. Lovecraft: Tales (Library of America)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Almost All You Need to Know	I'm not going to spend a lot of time 'reviewing' Lovecraft.  Suffice it to say that he is probably the most notable American horror writer of the early 20th Century and that his influence, and his imitators, continues to this day.  In many ways Lovecraft defined the genre of 'weird fiction,' his writing always talks of a mad universe just past the next door, of dark practices and inhuman desires, of mutated and distorted creatures that use men as toys when they notice us at all.  Strange to say, Lovecraft didn't do vampires.<br /><br />Unusual for horror at any time, Lovecraft was actually a good writer.  Even if he tended to overuse certain words like 'horrific' and 'accursed.'  He had a knack for telling a story that tickled both the brain and the heart somehow, and his world stayed with you long after you closed the book.  These days, between vampires and hack and slash action, Lovecraft's finesse is often forgotten, which makes this volume from the Library of America something to treasure.<br /><br />This isn't a complete Lovecraft, but the 22 stories and novellas are the greatest body of his work, and Peter Straub, who selected the tales to include, missed little of importance.  For someone new to Lovecraft, or an aficionado who wants a collection to travel with this book is ideal.  The stories are drawn from the Arkham House editions, which gives them as much authority as is needed for something most often read for pleasure.  The book is not inexpensive, and it is quite possible to find all the stories under other covers, but you will never find a more convenient and better selection.<br /><br />Unless, of course, you already have everything.  And that's the rub.  For those who already count the Arkham House set among their possessions this edition has little to offer.  Other then as a nicely packaged volume that is the perfect present for turning the next generation on to Lovecraft.  Or if you are like me and really do like the pleasure of a tidy, readable volume complete with it's own ribbon page marker.  The decision is yours, but you won't be disappointed if you buy this volume.ble volume complete with it's own ribbon page marker.  The decision is yours, but you won't be disappointed if you buy this volume.	2005-04-30
260477:US	53082946	R131X2VWY4OEO2	0671877216	683362821	One Foot in the Grave	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Werewolves Need Love Too	When you suddenly find yourself taking a night job, avoiding light, and losing weight because tuna wraps just no longer satisfy you might just have a bad cold.  Or, maybe, the bug you've got is one you get from something other than a rabid mosquito  Maybe, just maybe, you've got a severe case of undeaditis.  And that's the lot of Christopher Csejthe, who loses his wife and child, and then discovers that he may also have managed to lose his own life.<br /><br />Suddenly he is extracted to a vampire enclave in Seattle, subjected to a battery of tests to determine why he is stuck halfway between human and vampire, and generally pushed about in a world he doesn't even believe him.  Not just vampires, but werewolves, six kinds of fairy, and even gangsters (yes, I said gangsters) dog his path and light up his night.  This would be hard on someone who has a good sense of the political niceties, but Chris has attitude where most near vamps have good sense.  It's not long before even Chris's new friends are fingering their stakes.<br /><br />The story resolves into a cross country chase with Chris chasing the monsters that are chasing him, looking for answers and only getting in trouble.  There is a lot of back and forth banter and sly character interaction to give Simmons take on life as a neck-biter both human interest and a strong, interesting plot.  There are some surprises on the way to an ending that has more than a few novel twists and, overall, this is a novel worth searching for if you are looking for something different from yet another Anita Blake yarn.	2005-04-28
261563:US	53082946	R1AZVC6BVF00HC	0312878621	636347419	Bad Magic	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	San Francisco Through A Glass Darkly	Every fantasy author asks us to believe in a world created solely for the purpose of the story.  Magic, of course, is a must.  Then some number of magic workers and creatures - alchemists, vampires, elemental witches.  And, of course, there are a few heroic human types to leaven the bread.  Settings vary, but this time we find ourselves in San Francisco with a team of mages and warriors determined to root out those forms of magical creatures that consider humans as walking lunches.  They are an Opposition task force, whose headquarters are in Seattle, and whose enemies lair in San Diego.  All that saves us mundanes is a learned response to deny occult occurrences - what we won't see, can't hurt us - most of the time.<br /><br />Suddenly San Francisco is the target of the vulture cult, a group that survives on human misery and anger and who will bring down the world if they can feed their god.  This is an unequal struggle.  Our team of eight consists of quirky individuals who argue and criticize as much as they coordinate.  And the forces they are taking on are numerous, and armed with hell creatures like thin dogs and zombies.  The odds definitely favor the end of life, as we know it.<br /><br />For all their special abilities, the team works more like the A-Team than it does a magic circle, although their efforts at military precision often are more comic than effective.  They are as likely to shoot an enemy as bespell it, but more often than not what saves them is a strong ability to beat a hasty retreat and a knack for having the right spell for the wrong reason.  There is something vaudevillian about witches whose totem is a clam or houses that fly away when you press the panic button.<br /><br />Zielinski keeps things going at the speed of a Chinese fire drill - there is no such thing as a time when someone isn't in dire need of help.  Attitude is the rule of the day, as are wisecracks in the face of doom.  What suffers in the flurry of action is character development, although all the star players are given enough initial depth to keep the reader in touch with them.  Zielinski has laid the groundwork for a series with an interesting premise and sequels may accomplish what one volume cannot.<br /><br />On the whole an enjoyable book, one I'm glad I took the small risk of reading.  Perfect for the thrill seeker who thinks too many long incantations spoil the broth.r development, although all the star players are given enough initial depth to keep the reader in touch with them.  Zielinski has laid the groundwork for a series with an interesting premise and sequels may accomplish what one volume cannot. <br /> <br />On the whole an enjoyable book, one I'm glad I took the small risk of reading.  Perfect for the thrill seeker who thinks too many long incantations spoil the broth.	2005-04-27
268603:US	53082946	R35EZB4H8DYAT5	0380471752	312075444	The Courts of Chaos (The Chronicles of Amber Series, Book 5)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Follow the Solid Black Road	Finally, the end is in sight.  With the fifth volume in the Amber series Zelazny brings the first cycle to a close.  Oberon has returned to the throne, Brand has been revealed as the real traitor, and the Courts of Chaos await the final battle for Amber's existence.  Corwin finds his sudden relegation to second fiddle irksome, especially since Oberon's offhand manner hasn't changed in the least, but he knows his duty and the family pulls together for the final struggle.<br /><br />The key order of business is to repair the damage to the pattern and close down the threat of the black road.  Oberon's final decision, to remake the pattern is one that will likely kill him, whether he succeeds or fails, and Corwin suddenly discovers that his irritation with his father is only skin deep.  It is with a heavy heart that Corwin follows his father's command and starts his hell ride for the courts.<br /><br />And runs straight into Brand, who has no intention of allowing Corwin and Oberon to undo his plotting and return things to normal.  Corwin is delayed by one conflict after another.  Not only is the final outcome in doubt, but the reader must cope with the possibility of two endings at once.<br /><br />It was no mean feat in the 1970's to turn out a five volume series that could keep reader interest at a high level.  As the volumes progress, the writing develops, and it is interesting to compare this book, which consists of one long and detailed hell ride to other efforts in the series to capture traveling through the shadows.  The Courts of Chaos find Zelazny a much stronger writer than he was when the series started out.  He not only sets a compelling pace, but Corwin's character blooms as a several thousand year old man suddenly matures before out eyes.<br /><br />The Courts of Chaos is really the best of the series that had a great start and then wobbled a bit in the middle.  It guaranteed that Amber would have a place in the hearts of fantasy lovers for some time to come, and set the scene for the next five Amber volumes.  While these aren't my favorite Zelazny works, they are still outstanding writing.ome, and set the scene for the next five Amber volumes.  While these aren't my favorite Zelazny works, they are still outstanding writing.	2005-04-21
268870:US	53082946	R1YCOWU9G8L5SU	0974363995	339547322	1: Lords of Darkness: The Soulless	Books	2	3	6	N	Y	Vampires Don't Sunbathe	When Mordred Soulis took a job as a mercenary in the Second Crusade, he didn't count on finding out that his employer (King Conrad) was a complete nitwit.  After several examples of military ineptness Conrad manages to get his men killed off and stranded in the Arabian desert, until finally Mordred alone is alive, and that only barely.  Just as our doughty Scots hero is about to die he is killed instead by Vlad the vampire.  Next he finds himself collected by a group of mystics that apparently specialize in picking up Vlad's leftovers.<br /><br />One the get the knight into shape he is transferred to the Templars for advanced lessons on how to be a vampire.  Mordred, you see, is the 'chosen one.'  No, not Buffy, but the half vampire with what it takes to stop the evil Vlad in its tracks.  Now, with the story in full swing, the novel settles down to  a regular pattern of fight a little, learn a little, bit a little, and whine a lot.  After Mordred graduates from the Templars he studies under Kabil, one of the 'real' vampires, and so on, and so on...<br /><br />There are only a few things that will put me off a vampire story.  In general I want them to succeed and I'm willing to forgive a myriad of sins to enjoy the little bit of occult mystery that surround the genre.  Rule one, though, is that vampires shouldn't whine.  And Mordred is perpetually tripping over his reluctance to be what he is and asking people 'why me.'  In my world a vampire who complains that much is just a meal ticket waiting to happen.<br /><br />Another pet peeve is daylight.  With a great deal of magic, a vampire can survive direct sunlight for very short periods of time.  A newbie should go straight up in flames.  Burbank has Mordred making a desert trek to Egypt in bright daylight barely a month after he is born.  Vampires need weaknesses, otherwise they become boring, all powerful characters.  There is no such thing as a tanned vampire.<br /><br />And how is it possible that a crusader wouldn't know what a camel was.  It is this kind of mistake, and the relatively small amount of plot, that makes me give this book a low rating.  Burbank does seem to be able to write, but doesn't seem to be in control of her subject matter.  Plot shifts are almost always due to outside, miraculous intervention (a werewolf shows up to resolve a battle, etc.), not character development or force of events.  So unless you are totally vampire starved, I suggest you read elsewhere.er wouldn't know what a camel was.  It is this kind of mistake, and the relatively small amount of plot, that makes me give this book a low rating.  Burbank does seem to be able to write, but doesn't seem to be in control of her subject matter.   Plot shifts are almost always due to outside, miraculous intervention (a werewolf shows up to resolve a battle, etc.), not character development or force of events.  So unless you are totally vampire starved, I suggest you read elsewhere. <br />	2005-04-21
271363:US	53082946	R2QUYHRKCHSSUM	1588468232	27857351	Dark Ages Ravnos (DA Clan Novel 6) (Da Clan, 6)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Tinkers and Saints	This book picks up the story of Zo, who was Gregory the Wonder Maker, a character developed originally in Settite.  With Gregory's death, Zo left Andreas' caravan, and not she is on her own, making her way across the face of Europe toward Paris.  Only her determination to take revenge on the red-robed monks that took the life of her second father, gives her the motivation to proceed with her life.  Taken too young, and by Gregory, who despised his own vampire nature, Zo can only hunt successfully in the heat of her beast.  Control of her vampire nature still eludes her.<br /><br />Not only are the obstacles of daylight and vampire territoriality in her way.  Those she seeks to kill are by no means amateurs in the game of killing the undead.  For all the compulsiveness of her bloodlust her odds of killing Isidro and the other Red Brethren are minimal and her story is one of fruitless searching and frustrated attempts at execution.  When her path crosses that of Anatole, the mad Malkavian  from Lasombra she is at her wits end.<br /><br />Anatole steps in as a substitute father, but he has his own agenda as a vampire seeking to put an end to heresy among his king.  Zo, who has already been introduced to the basics of Settite religion must now cope with the peculiar Christianity of Anatole and the vampires who follow his path.  Zo's own feelings are often lost in the welter of conflicting ends and means.  Yet eventually she is ready to make her own coming of age voyage and find those bits of love that are a vampire's due.<br /><br />As a story, Ravnos moves slowly.  It takes a while for Zo to move beyond her initial haplessness and take an active role in the story.  In addition, the intricacies of both human and Cainite church politics are best suited to those who love fine detailing even at the cost of action and flow.  Still, Ravnos is no dry catalogue of facts but one of those tales that actually focus on the character development of a vampire.  Since the book extends the story out of the limited arena of Constantinople it is also a key turning point in the series and a statement of broader themes.book extends the story out of the limited arena of Constantinople it is also a key turning point in the series and a statement of broader themes. <br />	2005-04-19
277769:US	53082946	R26VQYLIA4KD30	0312317719	630286932	Thunder Horse: A Montana Mystery Featuring Gabriel Du Pre	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	"They sang.  They didn't talk."	Once upon a time I read Bowen's Gabriel Du Pr&eacute; stories because they were good mystery stories.  Then I read them because I loved the characters.  Then I read them because, by de-romanticizing the Northwest they had created a whole different vision of life in a land well beyond my ken.  Now I read them because of all of those things - there is always some gemlike bit in the story that catches my imagination.  Thunder Horse is like a boxful of those moments.<br /><br />Du Pr&eacute; is a Met&iacute;s Indian, member of a subculture that has existed before there were clearcut boundaries and fences.  It is a composite culture, often ignored, but of great richness and importance in American history.  It was the Metis, after all, who led Lewis and Clark west, who carried the furs to market, and learned to play a music which can compel the most somnolent to toe tapping.<br /><br />Many peoples have crisscrossed the north of Montana, not just the Met&iacute;s, and Thunder Horse is about the most ancient of these, the Horned Star People, who came across the land bridges 15,000 years ago.  A gravesite is discovered in Du Pr&eacute; 's country on land destined to become a dude trout fishing in the middle of nowhere.  When bones from a Tyrannosaurus Rex are also found Du Pr&eacute; quickly realizes that the trout are just a ruse and the new owners are really looking for a dinosaur skeleton worth millions.  And the Horned Star dead are just a nuisance to the hunters.  Even in Toussaint, Montana, big money means big trouble.  In no time flat a more modern victim is found.<br /><br />The real mystery isn't the murder, though, but the intricate relationship between the pieces of a millennia old puzzle.  Dinosaur bones, 15,000 year old Caucasian skeletons, and local Indian practices from as late as the past century all blend together into a story that is half anthropology and half a deeper mysticism that us modern guys from Detroit can really only guess at.  Bowen manages to bring is together into a story that is as funny as it is respectful of the deepest of values.  I find myself inhaling the story at one gulp and then desperately wanting more.s as funny as it is respectful of the deepest of values.  I find myself inhaling the story at one gulp and then desperately wanting more. <br />	2005-04-14
278604:US	53082946	R2SRVMK01C91XH	0380016648	324681623	The Hand of Oberon (The Chronicles of Amber, Book 4)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Infinity of Deviousness	In a strange, fantastical way, Zelazny's Amber series are the archetypes of the political fiction genre.  At least in the sense that there is not one character who does not have hidden agendas, schemes, and counter-schemes.  And, of course, there is even a kingdom at stake.  Even Amber, supposedly the closest thing there is to 'real,' is just another pea in the pattern shell game.<br /><br />So when Corwin, Random, and Ganelon  follow a trail to the 'really, real' pattern and discover that the damage to the pattern was the result of the attempted murder of Random's estranged son Martin, it is almost business as usual.  Almost, but not quite.  Random heads out to discover Martin's fate and Corwin sets about discovering who had summoned Martin into the Pattern and drawn blood.  With Chaos itself poised to enter the fray, damage to the pattern threatened everything Amber stood for.<br /><br />Knowing something bad  has happened, and even knowing who was traitor this teime, resolves little.  Enemies and friends change places once again.  Corwin chases after the master of the pattern and the trumps and finds himself visiting the Courts of Chaos.  As the tension gets higher Corwin finds more questions than answers, and just when things show any sign of making sense, Zelazny hits the reader with yet another cliff hanger and the only thing we can do is grab for volume five.<br /><br />One has to give Zelazny a great deal of credit for keeping the reader's attention in a plot that depends entirely on a series of betrayals.  It proves his mastery as a story teller.  The children of Oberon are a family that makes the Borgias look like innocents, but even the bad apples are fun to read about.  Magic aside this story has much that makes is a medieval melodrama, which is no surprise considering Zelazny's own literary background.  Only no medieval story ever took the increasingly baroque turns that the Amber stories do.<br /><br />Yet Zelazny makes no pretense at deeper, more philosophical meanings.  He is first and foremost an expert at the telling of tales.  His values are wonder and surprise, his heroes and villains may be flawed, but they are still larger than like.  That this series is still in print after all these years is testimony to a level of quality that today's authors still strive to equal.ore philosophical meanings.  He is first and foremost an expert at the telling of tales.  His values are wonder and surprise, his heroes and villains may be flawed, but they are still larger than like.  That this series is still in print after all these years is testimony to a level of quality that today's authors still strive to equal. <br />	2005-04-13
282595:US	53082946	RORN8LR821H4D	0756401364	935526976	Long Hot Summoning (Keeper's Chronicles)	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Pass the Basilisk	I was rather pleased when I discovered that there had been a third volume in Tanya Huff's summoner series.  While the previous volumes where fairly lightweight fare, they were a nice turn on the witch/godmother genre, updated with a lot of pleasant silliness that made the whole thing fun to read and accessible to a wide range of audience.<br /><br />For those that have never read one of these tales, summoners are a class of magic worker whose purpose is to preserve the balance between the forces of light and darkness.  They come in all ages and sizes, and Huff has chosen to tell the story of one family that includes summoners, friends, and cats (cats are important).  Diana and Claire are the two summoners in question here, in particular Diana, who has just graduated from high school and has received her first 'summoning.'<br /><br />The powers of darkness are attempting to create a doorway to our world by building a 'parallel' mall on the Otherside.  Once it is brought into synch with the real mall, all hell will break loose.  The task facing Clare and Diana is to deal with homeless teens turned elves, clumsy demons, Arthurian archetypes, soul sucking mummies, midget basketball players and about a hundred other equally exotic and peculiar characters.  All in the effort to save the world and turn shopping back into a normal activity.<br /><br />Two things disappointed in this effort.  First, is the writing.  Huff decided that everyone should have a story line and all the jumping between characters as the novel reaches a climax is more than a little distracting.  I found that It was hard to feel involved in the story while trying to get my bearings between fragments of episodes.  And the central story itself dissolves into a backdrop for a great deal of cuteness and slapstick.  The problems the characters face appear, rapidly expand into insurmountable crisis and then are suddenly resolved ex machina.<br /><br />My other issue has to do with making sexual orientation a plot device and then handling it so tentatively that the whole issue becomes gratuitous.  Huff is so anxious to be light hearted that she turns all the relations in the book into comic stereotypes.  It a book is going to work relationships have to be more than excuses for catastrophic decisions and crises that are going to dematerialize anyway.  This book would have been twice as good if Diana had shown just the natural maturity of her age.ntation a plot device and then handling it so tentatively that the whole issue becomes gratuitous.  Huff is so anxious to be light hearted that she turns all the relations in the book into comic stereotypes.  It a book is going to work relationships have to be more than excuses for catastrophic decisions and crises that are going to dematerialize anyway.  This book would have been twice as good if Diana had shown just the natural maturity of her age.	2005-04-10
287644:US	53082946	R1OLP465NL0T1V	0060572973	169911233	The Good, the Bad, and the Undead (The Hollows, Book 2)	Books	4	99	115	N	Y	Never Nibble on the Neck of the Teeth that Bite You	This is the second in a new series written by Kim Harrison that is based in an alternate world where magic happens and a vampire can be your best friend - during the day.  The premise is that a runaway virus brings about The Turn, and when it runs itself out, half the world is occult - witches, fairies, pixies, vampires, etc.  And the other half is human, and scared to death of tomatoes.  The premise is the same as the old Shadowrun series, but the world of Turned Cincinnati is almost as cozy and familiar as the one we live in.  Well, almost.<br /><br />Our heroine is Rachel Morgan, an independent runner (as in trouble shooter/maker), who almost lost her life to a demon disguised as a vampire in the previous volume.  That story established Rachel as a freelance investigator, living with an almost undead vampire (Ivy), in an old church.  In the garden live her trusty assistant, Jenks (a pixie), and his family.  This would be almost normal if Ivy wasn't in a perpetual struggle with her desire to eat people and her obvious affection for Rachel, if Jenks wasn't a potty mouthed mischief maker, and if Rachel didn't have a knack for careening from one deadly mess to another.<br /><br />This time Rachel's problems start when she accepts a contract to help with the investigation of a series of serial killings that is leaving the city's ley line witches in a bad state of disassembly.  Her task is to play a college student in the local University to spy on a particular professor.  Rachel, however, believes she is watching the wrong person, and that Trent Kalamack, the man who once turned her into a ferret and dropped her in a rat fight.  With Rachel compulsively chasing Kalamack and Ivy trying to desperately avoid her own fate, this is a story that is in perpetual crisis.<br /><br />The publisher will tell you that Rachel is a combination of Anita Blake and Stephanie Plum.  But even though the telling has a dash of Anita Blake's sexual follies the story lacks the high drama of Laurell Hamilton or the perpetual slapstick of Janet Evanovich.  If anything, the stories are more like Jim Butcher's work.  Rachel is interesting, but she as an underlying illogic which creates crises that could be avoided that only get in the way of her real goals.  Despite some momentary displays good manners she is primarily a woman who does whatever she wants regardless of consequences, which can be bad news for Ivy and Rachel's human boyfriend Nick.  And for Rachel as well, who finishes this book in trouble on all planes.<br /><br />If you disregard the improbabilities and the complexities of yet another version of vampire life this is an entertaining book.  All this disregarding would be easier if Harrison paid just a bit of attention to the consistency of her characters.  As it is, I enjoy her books until almost the end, which is where people tend to step out of character to get the plot to a proper hiatus.  If you are finicky (and I'm not) this may bother you.  But the story is more than adequate for entertainment.drama of Laurell Hamilton or the perpetual slapstick of Janet Evanovich.  If anything, the stories are more like Jim Butcher's work.  Rachel is interesting, but she as an underlying illogic which creates crises that could be avoided that only get in the way of her real goals.  Despite some momentary displays good manners she is primarily a woman who does whatever she wants regardless of consequences, which can be bad news for Ivy and Rachel's human boyfriend Nick.  And for Rachel as well, who finishes this book in trouble on all planes. <br /> <br />If you disregard the improbabilities and the complexities of yet another version of vampire life this is an entertaining book.  All this disregarding would be easier if Harrison paid just a bit of attention to the consistency of her characters.  As it is, I enjoy her books until almost the end, which is where people tend to step out of character to get the plot to a proper hiatus.  If you are finicky (and I'm not) this may bother you.  But the story is more than adequate for entertainment. <br />	2005-04-06
288984:US	53082946	R3HBMR83SS9WKJ	0330484508	277157469	A Crown of Lights (Merrily Watkins Mysteries)	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	"Thus We Banish Winter"	I believe that it was Lord Peter Wimsey who once made a habit of collecting vicars, one of the more idiosyncratic of British countryside characters.  Be that as it may, I'm sure the venerable master detective never anticipated a vicar quite like Merrily Watkins, determined minister, caring mother, and deliverance consultant (exorcist) in the service of the Anglican Church on the Welsh border.  Spiritual and personal crises have lead Merrily to this point in her life, and her investigations of not-so-normal events and challenges have made her the principal focus of Phil Rickman's mystery stories.<br /><br />When events give a pair of Pagan witches control of the site of a ruined church, Merrily senses trouble.  Not from the pagans, but from Nick Ellis, a priest from the more evangelical side of the Anglican Church.  Lately come from America, Ellis has set himself up in Radnor valley, where his style seems to suit the natives.  He is outraged by the presence of the couple and sets about declaiming and defaming in an effort to oust something he considers a tool of the devil.<br /><br />Called in to mediate what appears to be a dangerous situation, Merrily discovers that the danger lies in more directions than expected.  A death, a mysterious disappearance, and a host of dark rituals in unexpected places lead Merrily to realize that something wicked does indeed haunt the valley and that the pagans, Robin and Betty, are only come lately to a dark tale of greed and superstition.<br /><br />Rickman, who started writing horror stories, has really found his m&eacute;tier writing what are really detective stories with a supernatural bent.  He has created a set of likable characters - Merrily herself, 16-year-old daughter Jane, Jane's boyfriend Eirion, and the omnipresent Gomer, his wife lately passed away, happy to be helping Merrily in a tangled web of intrigue and murder.  Other volumes introduce even more characters, and the village of Ledwardine and its surrounding parishes spring alive with both charm and tension.<br /><br />One of Rickman's talents is his ability to build a long and detailed story arc from several angles.  This keeps the action fresh.  Be warned though that Rickman starts the windup to his endings early and can build the denouement steadily for over 100 pages of the book.  He never loses that action though, and these long books are usually quick entertaining reads.  While this isn't the first in the series, it plays well on its own, so by all means consider it a possible starting point.and tension.    One of Rickman's talents is his ability to build a long and detailed story arc from several angles.  This keeps the action fresh.  Be warned though that Rickman starts the windup to his endings early and can build the denouement steadily for over 100 pages of the book.  He never loses that action though, and these long books are usually quick entertaining reads.  While this isn't the first in the series, it plays well on its own, so by all means consider it a possible starting point.	2005-04-05
289897:US	53082946	R2TKF1SPBZGR4J	0743462823	936924895	The Lost Army (Hellboy)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	The Army That Marches On Its Bandages	I'm going to have to read the Hellboy comics.  I've seen the film and loved it, now I've a Chris Golden novel and loved it, it's really time to jump into to world of the next closest thing to Indiana Jones since, well... since Indiana Jones.  Assuming the Indiana Jones had red skin, a tail, weighed a quarter ton, and shave his horns.  And lived in Fairfield, Connecticut, of course.  Yes, ladies and gents, this irascible romantic and charming human wannabee is the foremost occult investigator on the planet - the poster child for the Bureau of Paranormal Research and Development.  When a team of British archeologist vanishes into the desert sands where 2500 years before Cambyses the Persian lost an army of 50,000, there's only one guy to call.<br /><br />Fresh from crashing a Bentley, Hellboy is parachuted into the Egyptian desert to find himself with his old flame Anastasia Bransfield, a team of archeologists, and a hardnosed egomaniac MI5 team.  In no time, the missing archeologists aren't missing any longer, they are dead, their pieces decorating trees in the oasis.  And Hellboy finds himself going mano a mano with some very skilled, very dead Persian soldiers.  Never has the phrase \\"it doesn't get any better than this,\\"  been more true.  The soldiers are pushovers compared to the seam monsters, spiders, and diabolical wizards that are next on the agenda.<br /><br />As you can probably tell this isn't a loving adventure story told with infinite detail and character building.  Hellboy's basic strategy is to find the badness, get an arm free, and punch it into the next solar system.  When you are that big and strong this works most of the time.  And when it doesn't, well, that's what this story is about, because Hazred the magician has what it takes to stand off the US Army, slam Hellboy down on an altar and call Mar Ti Ku (another, even bigger, bad guy) back to life.  Does our red-skinned hero find a way out?  Find that out for yourselves (hint: this is a series).<br /><br />I'm not going to quibble over whether this is a true presentation of the comic Hellboy.  Suffice it to say that Mike Mignola, Hellboy's creator, drew some 75 illustrations for this story, so it can't be all that bad.  Chris Golden certainly manages to put capture the spirit of crazy adventure and sarcastic, in your face dialog that is Hellboy's signature style.  So open the book, grab some popcorn and get read to root for the hero and boo the villains.  This is just plain fun.). <br /> <br />I'm not going to quibble over whether this is a true presentation of the comic Hellboy.  Suffice it to say that Mike Mignola, Hellboy's creator, drew some 75 illustrations for this story, so it can't be all that bad.  Chris Golden certainly manages to put capture the spirit of crazy adventure and sarcastic, in your face dialog that is Hellboy's signature style.  So open the book, grab some popcorn and get read to root for the hero and boo the villains.  This is just plain fun. <br />	2005-04-04
293565:US	53082946	RMYPITXSR70XV	1561585610	289873410	Taunton's Complete Illustrated Guide to Choosing & Installing Hardware (Complete Illustrated Guides (Taunton))	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Making Things Work	For the most part hardware is an unromantic subject.  Frequently your options are plain and hidden away, and, unless you make your own, the fun stops as soon as you make your choices.  Yet a mistake in the use or installation of hardware is often the mistake that is spotted first, easily becoming the ruin if hours of painstaking work.<br /><br />Hinges happen to be my low water.  I've measured, chiseled, shed blood, and excruciated more times than I want to talk about, only to find that it wasn't quite right and I had to make some devious adjustment.  Settich's book may not be poetic, but it is eminently practical, and I discovered several tricks that eased the way as I read it.  There are twelve sections that cover everything from the simplest nail or screw to the more arcane worlds of locks, slides, and hinges.<br /><br />Lots of illustration and accompanying text reduce things into easily digestible advice that will improve your work and open new possibilities.  My copy is already showing wear from numerous consultations.  This really should be one of your earlier purchases in this series.	2005-04-01
294763:US	53082946	R2BUWRPH8KUE10	0380008319	320765248	Sign of the Unicorn (The Chronicles of Amber #3)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Family  Kills Together...	Sign of the Unicorn marks the initial phases of Prince Corwin's actions as the regent of Amber.  A beginning full of ill omens and worse.  Corwin's first task is the investigation of Caine's murder by creatures from some unknown place in the shadows.  The same creatures that once chased Random into Fiona's lair.  Corwin's brother tells the story of his attempt to rescue Brand, and Corwin's own efforts nearly becoms another disaster.  Things do not improve from there, either.<br /><br />Corwin is trying to unravel the source of the black road, the reason for the mysterious attacks on Amber, and identify the guilty parties.  Needless to say his brothers and sisters, all seeking their own ends are rarely as helpful as they could be.  A few, no doubt, are guilt of carrying on their on plots for control, and Corwin quickly discovers that there's no such thing as a safe house.<br /><br />Politics in Amber grow increasingly complicated and deadly.  Corwin first has to narrow down the options and then face the uncomfortable decision of who really did want him dead.  Zelazny wraps the story up by raising even more questions and confusion.  Enough for a whole handful of sequels.<br /><br />Sign of the Unicorn is a return to Zelazny's usually fluid prose.  While Random's narrative dragged a bit, the rest of the story is full of dark moments and surprise twists.  This time we get to meet the rest of the family, and they prove to be a unique and worrisome bunch.  Don't know if Oberon's children are the first dysfunctional family in science fiction, but not one is really safe enough to close you eyes around.<br /><br />If you are reading this review you are probably already hooked, and don't need to be told to keep reading.  If you're new, go back and read Nine Princes in Amber and look forward to one of fantasy's most vital series.	2005-03-31
295185:US	53082946	R2FRYAG2EVH2NZ	1588468208	281999047	Dark Ages: Lasombra	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Lady and Her Sword	Lasombra reintroduces us to one of the clans that played a large part in the original Clan series and one of the more interesting members of that clan - Lucita of Aragon, an agent of Cardinal Moncada in the city of Constantinople.  Things have gotten no better in the conquered city, and, in many ways, they have gotten far worse.  Not only have the denizens become lost in internecine squabbling and intrigue, and Byzantium hovers at the brink of other wars at the hands of the Latins and Bulgars.<br /><br />Lucita is drawn to the power vacuum in Constantinople, but knows full well that for her the path to that power must be through favor and connection rather than possession of a prince's crown.  She decides the Bishop Alfonzo is the vampire best suited to her own plans and sets about working to bring him to power.  This will put her at odds with Gabriella, another contestant, and threatens her relationship with Moncada.  But, if she does her work right she will have gained much in the dark courts of the vampires.<br /><br />At the camps around Adrianopolis rumors run like wildfire.  Caine has been seen walking, the cultists of his dread sister Calomena seem to have regained their strength, and Malachite has returned from his search for Dracon.  In the chaos many are ready to flee from all remembrance of the Dream.  Change threatens from every side.<br /><br />Wilson's story is just a bit too dry for me, a little too focused on politics and speeches.  But there's plenty of action as well to carry the reader over the bump parts.  The novel plays a vital part in setting the scene for the rest of the series and bringing the reader up to date on the bigger picture of unlife in Byzantium.  We also get glimpses of some of the European factors in the vampire world, all packed in digestible, easy to read format.<br /><br />For all that this is the Lasombra volume, and almost all the major characters are Lasombra, there is little of the traditional Lasombra antics until the action reaches a complex.  I would have liked to see more of th emajor mojo for the simple reason that I really read vampire stories for the thrills and the scary parts.  When there is too much political documentary I start contemplating a switch to werewolves.  Only for a short moment, though.the action reaches a complex.  I would have liked to see more of th emajor mojo for the simple reason that I really read vampire stories for the thrills and the scary parts.  When there is too much political documentary I start contemplating a switch to werewolves.  Only for a short moment, though. <br />	2005-03-31
301385:US	53082946	R1T8JV88A149QM	0380000830	349204650	The Guns of Avalon (Chronicles of Amber, No. 2)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Family and Friends	As I started to reread Guns of Avalon my initial reaction was that it wasn't as strong as Nine Princes in Amber.  The first chapters are very episodic, and there is an enormously long description of a shift,  Corwin has escaped from Amber and his brother Eric and seems at loose ends for a time.  Corwin finds and rescues Lancelot du Lac and Joins Ganelon, an old enemy, in a battle against the dark.  The curse Corwin uttered in Amber has had echoes throughout the shadow worlds and there's a lot of cleanup to be done.<br /><br />Gradually the exiled prince forms a plan for defeating Eric.  There is a substance that can explode in Amber and Corwin intends to introduce some unexpected weapons into the conflict.  Ganelon befriends Corwin and the two head for Avalon, where Corwin sets about collecting ingredients.  There he finds Benedict, one of his brothers, and Dara, a deadly and beautiful swordwoman.  The latter meeting has unexpected repercussions that will bear fruit later in the series.<br /><br />With the arrival in Avalon, the novel shifts back into high gear and we return to Zelazny's usual compelling narrative.  Ganalon and Corwin shift their way across the shadows, sometimes chased by Benedict, sometimes dodging an evil black road with a mind of its own.  Corwin prepares his advance and eventually, Amber lies within Corwin's sights and the final battle is joined.<br /><br />Well, that's what you expect, anyway.  But Corwin finds everything topsy turvy, with unexpected heroes and equally unexpected villains.  Once again you will find yourself wondering how one writer can manage to consistently bring a fresh vision to each new work.  His quirky characters and the peculiarities of his extended family's politics provide the material for both wry dialog and multi-level narrative.  Not only do you have to read The Guns of Avalon because the best is yet to come, you are going to be glad that you did.	2005-03-26
304763:US	53082946	R22QOYKCU227GQ	0380014300	248658617	Nine Princes In Amber	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Once Again, from the Top	Every series has to start somewhere, but I doubt that Roger Zelazny anticipated that the Amber series would run to 10 volumes when he sent Nine Princes In Amber to print. But for us readers, it was clear that Zelazny's story of Amber, the reality that lies behind all the phantom worlds we inhabit, had something special in the way of plot, concept, and characters. Examined carefully, there is nothing here that is deafeningly original but, as usual, Zelazny's magic is in taking a fresh look at the possibilities and making the result fascinating to the reader.<br /><br />Corwin is a typical Zelazny main character. Long lived (possibly eternal), provided with special powers, and a wry outlook that keeps the drama from becoming maudlin. Corwin awakes in a hospital with almost no clue of his identity, spends the first half of the book working out the details of his identity, and the second half trying to get even. He is a prince one of an almost countless number of Oberon's children who have a penchant for plotting, backstabbing, and power plays. With Oberon gone missing, brother Eric has moved on the throne and after 400 years of exile Corwin feels compelled to become the opposition.<br /><br />Zelazny has an instinctive feel for the dynamics of a story based on the ability to navigate, and perhaps create unreal worlds by 'remembering' where you want to be, step by step. The effects on character attitudes and activities like war waging is significant, and Zelazny avoids the feel of magic spell work, instead treating what Oberon's children can do as just another talent, for all its fantastic nature. In fact, one of Zelazny's traits is his matter of fact approach to what most of us would consider miracle working. As a result we never feel like we are suspending out disbelief.<br /><br />Corwin's worst challenge is his family, of courts. Countless brothers and sisters in unspecified relationships with seemingly little loyalty to each other. It is typical that it was an accident intended to end his life that triggered the end of his memory loss instead. And typical that relatives have become so used to baroque plots that Corwin's first fumbling efforts are taken as brilliance giving the rebel prince an opportunity to establish a foothold and join in the struggle against Eric.<br /><br />Zelazny isn't prone to excessive writing, but is a past master at conjuring up characters and landscapes with rapid brushstrokes. The dialog is always crisp as well. Even reading this story again after a gap of years, I could remember the details of the story and still found that the magic persisted and the Amber really was a throne worth pursuing.s an accident intended to end his life that triggered the end of his memory loss instead. And typical that relatives have become so used to baroque plots that Corwin's first fumbling efforts are taken as brilliance giving the rebel prince an opportunity to establish a foothold and join in the struggle against Eric.  <br /> <br />Zelazny isn't prone to excessive writing, but is a past master at conjuring up characters and landscapes with rapid brushstrokes. The dialog is always crisp as well. Even reading this story again after a gap of years, I could remember the details of the story and still found that the magic persisted and the Amber really was a throne worth pursuing.	2005-03-23
306895:US	53082946	R2QF09BSOT8FCM	0689869576	233446951	The Suicide King (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	15	20	N	Y	Er...	Once upon a time when I was much younger there was a short lived fad for do it yourself adventure books where you made decisions and, usually, got hammered.  Fortunately, the fad was short-lived, even in those days when paperbacks were three for a dollar.  One of the problems with this genre, if you can call it that is that, in a book of less than 200 pages, the story occupied about 50 pages.  You wound up having to reread the book 5 times to get anything that resembled your money's worth.<br /><br />Surprise!  Do it yourself adventure stories are back, this time with you starring as Buffy.  Unfortunately, I'm a senior citizen, and my normal reaction to choosing between staking a vampire and chopping its head off it 'run away, run away.'  I don't want to be Buffy, I just want to read about her and admire Willow from afar.  And unfortunately, the story in The Suicide King is so chopped up, and so short that it failed to satisfy my vicarious pleasure.<br /><br />A new force has come to Sunnydale, one that feeds on the suicides of teenagers (or anyone else it can possess).  After five suicides at the high school (four students and the grief counselor) Buffy decides to investigate.  She finds that K'adolh, an ancient nasty imprisoned in a paper scroll, is about to be returned to this dimension by a sect of disciples.  From there, the plot is yours to pursue.  You can fail, win, render Willow a babbling idiot, or any one of a dozen or so endings.<br /><br />Mostly though what I did was scratch my head and wonder why Buffy and her cohorts, who are part of one of the more interesting productions ever to grace television, who have be carefully developed dramatic characters, have suddenly been turned back into simpleminded 16 year olds.  Especially since one of the best parts of the show was the respect it paid to an age group that most often only get to be in situation comedies.<br /><br />I'm inclined to tell you to go out, buy a Mr. Pointy and stake this book.  But no, there are people who will enjoy this, who won't mind that they just paid full price for a 54-page short story.  But if you love what BTVS became, you may just want to pass this by.t no, there are people who will enjoy this, who won't mind that they just paid full price for a 54-page short story.  But if you love what BTVS became, you may just want to pass this by.	2005-03-21
309524:US	53082946	R3L7N967D7BQZB	1932234411	75828016	Ring (Ring Series, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Ripples of Fear	How embarrassing!  A while ago I found Ring while looking through the mysteries and bought it because it was 1) Japanese, and 2) sounded interesting.  It went on my to be read pile where it waited without me ever making the connection between the novel and two films by the same name.  I only realized when its turn came that I was going to read a book that had spawned two hit films.  Of course, the films are really only based on the novel rather than reprise of the novel, but that only makes the book more interesting.<br /><br />Kasuyuki Asakawa is a journalist, one who writes those slightly boring special articles and interviews that appear in the weeklies.  A series of coincidences lead Asakawa to several peculiarly similar deaths.  One of the fatalities is a niece, and shortly, Asakawa is investigating.  The trail leads him to an out of the way resort where he finds an unlabeled video tape.  One that threatens his death if he doesn't follow the instructions.  Unfortunately, the instructions have been erased.<br /><br />This touches off a frantic hunt for clues to the missing ritual.  Asakawa must save not only his own life buth the life of his wife, child, and friend Ryuji.  The investigation turns to volcanic islands, rural clinics and Tokyo itself.  Not only is the answer hard to find, but when found, it raises as many questions as it resolves.<br /><br />Think of this as a procedural horror story.  Suzuki writes a classic Japanese novel, delving into his characters as much as he writes narrative.  Asakawa's rising panic as the date of his death approaches is contrasted with Ryuji's stoicism and outlandish ideas.  There is no graphic horror here but instead Suzuki gradually turns up the tension and our imagination takes off from there.  When done, the irony of the conclusion leaves a lasting impression.	2005-03-19
311531:US	53082946	R1LC011XTSV6V3	1579904599	420247141	400 Wood Boxes: The Fine Art of Containment & Concealment (500 Series)	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Little boxes, little boxes...	Whether woodworker or collector you be, this is a must book.  It displays some of the finest examples of modern box making I've seen under one cover.  It is in artist by artist order.  The photography and reproduction is professional, and the work represented covers the range from the traditional jewelry boxes of  Roy Tsumoto to the incredible concoctions of Po Shun Leong.  I like this heterogeneous approach because each time I start looking through the book I find that my tastes and understanding get a bit broader.  This is a tremendous source of ideas.<br /><br />Being a maker, I wish there were more technical details.  On several occasions I found myself struggling to see how the artist created the box.  In other words this is more about design than it is about engineering.  But there is no curse without its blessing - making myself think of a way to carry out a design is good exercise.  In any case, this book is invaluable for understanding the fine line between craft and art, one enclosed space after another.	2005-03-17
313331:US	53082946	R1HP0QS8DJ55IZ	0743445368	935567915	To Die in Italbar/A Dark Travelling	Books	5	5	6	N	N	"Yet a part of me, somewhere, seems to be screaming"	I decided to review this slim volume because To Die In Italbar has the distinction of being the second (and last) volume in the series he started with Isle of the Dead.  While Francis Sandow only puts in a momentary appearance, it is a significant one, and once again the story turns on the clash between two Peian gods.  This time the goddess the Shimbo faces is Arym-o-Myra, goddess of healing and disease.  And this time the conflict is over the survival of the human race.<br /><br />The novel works several threads, the most important is that of Heidel von Hymack, who has accidentally become Arym-o-Myra's avatar.  Able to bring the diseases of his body into balance, he can cure any disease.  Unfortunately, the side effect is that when Hymack's body isn't in balance, he is a disease carrier.  He delays too long on one planet, causes a plague, and is nearly killed by a crowd.  Anger replaces his concern, and suddenly he is overcome by Jackara's darker side.  Now humanity is the disease to be cured.<br /><br />Two people see a potential use for Hymack.  Malacar Miles is an insurrectionist, bound to oppose the planetary commonwealth and defense the existence of the planets that were one part of earth's influence.  Malacar lives in the shattered remains of his planet, living th life of a terrorist.  When he discovers the existence of Hymack he sees an opportunity to launch a truly destructive campaign.  Also tracking Hymack is the dead Dr. Pels who is seeking a cure for his own condition.<br /><br />And then there is Francis Sandow, who the Peians have called in to deal with the resurgence of Arym-o-Myra.  He has no agenda other than keeping folks alive and putting a god that has legitimate reason to be awake back to sleep.  On one last planet all these forces meet - telepath against telepath against god.<br /><br />Again, Zelazny demonstrates creativity that refuses to fall into a rut.  He poses bit questions in human packages without hubris or theatrical deliver of messages.  The result is a poignant tale that can set you thinking about what is and isn't important in a universe full of possibility.er of messages.  The result is a poignant tale that can set you thinking about what is and isn't important in a universe full of possibility. <br />	2005-03-16
315178:US	53082946	RAZSTQOKEA58Z	1588468216	165140202	Dark Ages Setite (DA Clan Novel 4) (Da Clan, 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	From Adrianople to Lombardy in a Hearse	This series is beginning to unnerve me.  Three out of the first four have a great deal of action and interplay and the last two have been almost compelling.  I'm used to White Wolf's novels being slow and detailed, full of the minutia that is invaluable to a game player, but less of a draw to a casual reader.  Cappadocian, and now Setite have been novels that could stand in their own right, and I couldn't be more pleased.<br /><br />As the dust settles in Constantinople, many of the undead are leaving, heading for old homes or fresh starts.  But travel, for vampires is difficult and dangerous.  The world is divided up into kingdoms and principalities with rulers of all sorts, and a lone voyager is in danger on all sides.  Enter Andreas the Settite, also known as Ankhesenaten who makes his living transporting the deathless to other demesnes, when he isn't pursuing other, even more dangerous agendas.<br /><br />His immediate problem is that, instead of the five vampires he expected to guide into France, there are eleven.  Vampires, even when they travel in boxes, require a large support staff.  Those that are not in torpor require even more since the must hunt without drawing too much unwelcome attention.  And Andreas has another worry - he must coax a box or vessel containing the withered heart of the heretic Khay'tall of the hands of the undead craftsman with whom it has been entrusted.<br /><br />As this caravan rumbles across Europe on its three year voyage, one adventure opens up after another, like a nourish Canterbury Tales.  Greedy kings, mad pilgrimages of the faithful, and even the peccadilloes of vampire love affairs keep up the story's interest and make all of the characters come to life.  Even Andreas has his personal moments as he deals with the problems of having a Frankish Setite, the beautiful Meribah, in his entourage.  Will he protect her, will he love her, or will he simply use Meribah and throw her away?<br /><br />As you can tell, there's more here than in the usual clan novel, and this bodes well for future volumes.  Especially if they are all as well written as Setite.  Despite being part of a series, this book stands well on its own if you have even a vague idea of the underlying plot.and this bodes well for future volumes.  Especially if they are all as well written as Setite.  Despite being part of a series, this book stands well on its own if you have even a vague idea of the underlying plot.	2005-03-14
316590:US	53082946	R16QOWS1Z1YSCK	1413705227	729648876	From Darkness	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Beware Houses With Graveyards	I make enough typos when I write that I'm normally hesitant to criticize a book for the same problem.  From Darkness, unfortunately, suffers from what I call apostrophe abuse, i.e., contractions that are de-contracted - like using \\"your\\" for \\"you're.\\"  I find this distracting, since I have to stop and reread a sentence to get its meaning.  From Darkness suffers from such a bad case of this I've subtracted a star for bad editing.  Which is a shame in what is otherwise a readable story.<br /><br />The story starts out as a 'newly-wed couple move into a house with a dark past' novel.  The dark past in this case is a large number of beheadings in the basement, and an eerie tunnel that keeps appearing and disappearing.  Something happened a long time ago and Tina and Mike Moore are right in the middle of the aftermath.  What lay hidden in the basement has no intention of staying there any longer than it has to.  And when it rises there will be all hell to pay.<br /><br />The young couple, Tina's sister Connie, and a host of supporting characters become involved in extracting the truth from the tiny community that makes its home on Orca Island.  With each step of the way the problem worsens until a case of the domestic terrors develops into a national emergency.<br /><br />This combination of bad-thing-in-the-basement and end-of-the-world works surprisingly well, although I wish that more time had been spent in building up the transitions.  The story starts at an intimate level and then suddenly escalates to military confrontations and back again.  This is a quick, very action oriented read that would have benefited from about 50 more pages of details and character development.<br /><br />If you like a lot of action, some gruesome bits, and a dash or two of romance, this might be exactly what you want for late night reading.  Karil Wade demonstrated that she is a capable story-teller, and I would keep an eye out for future developments.	2005-03-13
317728:US	53082946	R2819VAN1OF6OE	039915180X	797916108	Hidden Prey	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Spy He Didn't Love	I find I'm often conflicted about John Sandford's books.  I always seem to ike them, but sometimes I'm not really all that interested in them.  Take Hidden Prey, which is a cross between a police procedural (which I like) and a spy thriller (something I rarely read).  It has a convolute plot that starts with the murder of a possible Russian spy and then shifts to the story of a small cell of Communists, hidden in northern Minnesota, that has been forgotten for some 25 years, and very much intends to stay that way.  This unusual plot makes Hidden Prey hard to put down, even though spies just don't push my buttons.<br /><br />Perhaps Sandford's real skill in this book is his ability to create characters.  Lucas Davenport is an old friend, of course, but in his new role as head of the Office of Regional Research many of his old connections have been replaced with a steady flow of new faces, and Sandford always manages to have each make an impression.  This is true whether they become regulars or fail to survive to the end of the chapter.  I am a loss as to how he does this, since Sandford is not one to use excess words.<br /><br />The major new character of this book is Nadya Kalin fresh from Russia to help in the investigation of the death of Rodion Oleshev, who might be a spy, but is also the son of one of Russia's oil barons.  Nadya is here to make sure that the father is satisfied that justice, or revenge, is executed.  She is older, but beautiful, but Lucas is married to Weather, a proud father, and interested in cleaning up the case and getting home.  He leaves the byplay to another detective, with unexpected results.<br /><br />People start dropping like flies, or like the victims of espionage.  Lucas and Nadya poke around small Minnesota towns, and wherever they go, death has a knack of traveling with them.  Grandfathers, teenagers, and homeless ladies all seem to conspire to keep the truth hidden from the detectives.  The readers are better informed - this is one of those mysteries where you have more clues than out investigators and a certain amount of the pleasure of reading is watching Lucas tease out what we already know.<br /><br />Hidden Prey strikes me as one of the best that Sandford has done in a while.  It mixes just the right amount of plot and character, and captures some of the atmosphere of life in small town Minnesota.  The end result is that, despite being a full-length novel, it reads very quickly.  It looks like there is still life in Lucas Davenport for some time to come.is is one of those mysteries where you have more clues than out investigators and a certain amount of the pleasure of reading is watching Lucas tease out what we already know. <br /> <br />Hidden Prey strikes me as one of the best that Sandford has done in a while.  It mixes just the right amount of plot and character, and captures some of the atmosphere of life in small town Minnesota.  The end result is that, despite being a full-length novel, it reads very quickly.  It looks like there is still life in Lucas Davenport for some time to come.	2005-03-12
323254:US	53082946	R1KTO0L46XLGQ1	0967822149	73554927	Crone's Moon: A Rowan Gant Investigation (The Rowan Gant Investigations)	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	Serial Witchery	With this volume, the 5th in the Rowan Gant Investigation series, Sellars stakes out new ground, some of which I'm not entirely comfortable with.  Let me start out by saying that I read and watch a lot of horror - I'm comfortable with a fair amount of violence.  And violence really isn't the issue here but whether it contributes to the plot, is gratuitous - used in place of a plot.  Crone's Moon skates very close to that latter and it bothers me since, after all, this is supposed to be an investigation, not a torturing.<br /><br />This time Gant discovers that the blackouts that started during The Law of Three were actually due to a connection with a different series of killings by yet another serial killer.  To make matters more complicated, Gant's wife Felicity has interfered with Gant's own connection to the spiritual and has managed to get hooked into the same circuit that has been zapping Rowan.  Felicity becomes as frenzied as Gant in trying to stop the crimes and both seem to drive each other into fits where the connection to the victim threatens to kill one or both Gants.  Throw in a lot of chasing around and some arguments with the authorities and you pretty much have the entire plot.<br /><br />Other than the collusion of Felicity, this is pretty much standard Gant fare, although I wish Sellars would just once take the time to work  out why all this keeps happening instead of just describing what a witch would call a 'bad hair day.'  But there are only two plot devices in play, Rowan's arguing with his wife, and the secondhand violence suffered by witches in connection with the victims.  And the latter is where most of the writing effort went.  So instead of a few shocking episodes to set the atmosphere we get a continual flow of spooky epileptic fits and stigmata.  This build tension for a while, but it also bogs down the plot.  So you get to wince at the secondhand torment of the Gants and wonder why all this is happening to the main characters.<br /><br />We never really get an answer.  Instead, the conclusion is a frantic chase, followed by a very short wrap up.  And now we have two witches who can't maintain enough self-control to be truly effective instead of one.  And an Indian police detective who keeps calling people 'white man' and 'fire hair'.  How you react to this will depend one what you are looking for.  What I wanted was a mystery story with a couple intelligent witches (yes, there are intelligent witches).  What I got was a standard fare serial killer suspense thriller with some spooky parts.n answer.  Instead, the conclusion is a frantic chase, followed by a very short wrap up.  And now we have two witches who can't maintain enough self-control to be truly effective instead of one.  And an Indian police detective who keeps calling people 'white man' and 'fire hair'.  How you react to this will depend one what you are looking for.  What I wanted was a mystery story with a couple intelligent witches (yes, there are intelligent witches).   What I got was a standard fare serial killer suspense thriller with some spooky parts.	2005-03-08
329364:US	53082946	R1Z8ZDO5WUX3WV	1588468194	827687758	Dark Ages: Cappadocian	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Alive and Dead Again	It's a shame that Cappadocians disappeared as a clan.  As they are pictured here they are pretty interesting dead folks.  There are the run of the mill Cappadocians who are contemplative and given to prophecy, the Lamia - guardians and warrior maidens,  Giovanni - necromancers and entrepreneurs, and even Lazerene apostates who are seeking the secrets of resurrection.  From this motley crew, and a couple of Settites, Andrew Bates weaves another genuinely readable volume in the Dark Ages series.<br /><br />The central characters are Markus Giovanni, whose thirst for artifact has given him a fragment of the Sargon Codex - the piece needed to enable the Lazerenes to translate the whole codex and acquire the powers of creation. Racing against time to stop him is the Cappadocian seeress Constancia, who has seen that if the Lazerenes gain the powers of the codex, all hope for Michael's dream of a culture of vampires will turn to dust.<br /><br />The race is run from Constantinople to a hidden oasis in Egypt, with Constancia just missing Markus at every step of the way.  Magic and battle each play a part, and there is far more action in this volume than I have seen in a World of Darkness book in a long time.  This is really what I want to find when I read on of these volumes.  I understand that the rich detail that bogs down some of the volumes serves to support gamers who are in need of good resources and information.  But I'm mostly a reader, and I want a story that keeps all my attention and features my favorite creatures - vampires.<br /><br />Bates does an excellent job with both the story and his characters, who are less theatrical vampires and more like blood-loving intelligent actors in a desperate play.  And the addition of companions like Markus's ghouls Falsinore and Beltramose add wry opportunities for a few smiles even as the dark plot unfolds.  This is a full fleshed adventure all on it's own, even though it is embedded in a series.  Hopefully we will be treated to more such writing as this series begins to pick up speed and momentum.be treated to more such writing as this series begins to pick up speed and momentum. <br /> <br />	2005-03-03
330445:US	53082946	R3R0P2G497WM0W	0380809060	394892878	The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10 (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Once Again, from the Top	Every series has to start somewhere, but I doubt that Roger Zelazny anticipated that the Amber series would run to 10 volumes when he sent Nine Princes In Amber to print.  But for us readers, it was clear that Zelazny's story of Amber, the reality that lies behind all the phantom worlds we inhabit, had something special in the way of plot, concept, and characters.  Examined carefully, there is nothing here that is deafeningly original but, as usual, Zelazny's magic is in taking a fresh look at the possibilities and making the result fascinating to the reader.<br /><br />Corwin is a typical Zelazny main character.  Long lived (possibly eternal), provided with special powers, and a wry outlook that keeps the drama from becoming maudlin.  Corwin awakes in a hospital with almost no clue of his identity, spends the first half of the book working out the details of his identity, and the second half trying to get even.  He is a prince one of an almost countless number of Oberon's children who have a penchant for plotting, backstabbing, and power plays.  With Oberon gone missing, brother Eric has moved on the throne and after 400 years of exile Corwin feels compelled to become the opposition.<br /><br />Zelazny has an instinctive feel for the dynamics of a story based on the ability to navigate, and perhaps create unreal worlds by 'remembering' where you want to be, step by step.  The effects on character attitudes and activities like war waging is significant, and Zelazny avoids the feel of magic spell work, instead treating what Oberon's children can do as just another talent, for all its fantastic nature.  In fact, one of Zelazny's traits is his matter of fact approach to what most of us would consider miracle working.  As a result we never feel like we are suspending out disbelief.<br /><br />Corwin's worst challenge is his family, of courts.  Countless brothers and sisters in unspecified relationships with seemingly little loyalty to each other.  It is typical that it was an accident intended to end his life that triggered the end of his memory loss instead.  And typical that relatives have become so used to baroque plots that Corwin's first fumbling efforts are taken as brilliance giving the rebel prince an opportunity to establish a foothold and join in the struggle against Eric.<br /><br />Zelazny isn't prone to excess writing, but is a past master at conjuring up characters and landscapes with rapid brushstrokes.  The dialog is always crisp as well.  Even reading this story again after a gap of years, I could remember the details of the story and still found that the magic persisted and the Amber really was a throne worth pursuing.to end his life that triggered the end of his memory loss instead.  And typical that relatives have become so used to baroque plots that Corwin's first fumbling efforts are taken as brilliance giving the rebel prince an opportunity to establish a foothold and join in the struggle against Eric.    Zelazny isn't prone to excess writing, but is a past master at conjuring up characters and landscapes with rapid brushstrokes.  The dialog is always crisp as well.  Even reading this story again after a gap of years, I could remember the details of the story and still found that the magic persisted and the Amber really was a throne worth pursuing.	2005-03-02
332879:US	53082946	RZJHCM3YMV5NQ	0839823460	575453312	Isle of the Dead (The Gregg Press Science Fiction Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Waters of Acheron	Roger Zelazny has a tendency to create main characters who are either eternal or have lived a very long time.  This isn't a fault, because he relies on this only to establish the depth of the character, not as a major plot device.  In fact, perhaps the biggest lesson his heroes learn is that, if you live forever, you can make a lot of enemies.  Some of them aren't even your enemies.<br /><br />Francis Sandow is on such mein character.  After a shaky star in this century, modern science and sheer luck have contrived to make him the worlds oldest rich man.  The luck was falling into the hands of the Peians, who taught him how to create worlds and some experience in the fine are of revenge.  Worldscaping is the basis for his money, but it didn't save him from offending people.<br /><br />One such antagonist has taken up stealing the dying personality tapes of some of Sandow's best friends and enemies in an effort to lure him to the Isle of the Dead.  His offense was to be a human and qualify for the honor of bonding with a Peian god and becoming a planetscaper.  A Peian who didn't pass the grade took offense and has spent several hundred years working on getting even.  Now he has reconstructed the people and Sandow bites the lure.<br /><br />Of course, the revenge you see is not necessarily the revenge you get.  Things go awry in spectacular style.  Sandow is forced to incarnate Shimbo, the Shrugger of Thunders, and suddenly the scope of the conflict goes out of control.  Anotherr truth about Zelazny is that even his villains have redeeming traits, and in this wry but tragic tale, the reader will find it hard to dislike anyone.<br /><br />For some reason, Isle of the Dead has remained one of my favorite Zelazny stories.  I won't claim that it is his best, but it pushes all the right buttons for me and I keep coming back to it.  Sandow is my kind of hero - a bit of a rat, but basically a good guy in a tough universe.  He has every excuse to be bitter, but he refuses to crumble.  In any case, this book has a habit of regularly going out of print.  If you are a Zelazny fan than find it how you may, I promise you will find it worth the effort.uses to crumble.  In any case, this book has a habit of regularly going out of print.  If you are a Zelazny fan than find it how you may, I promise you will find it worth the effort.	2005-02-28
335413:US	53082946	R39AAS151N1TIQ	0744005302	44529977	Xenosaga Episode 2: Strategy Guide, Limited Edition	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The Good, the Bad, and the Indifferent	This guide has the misfortune of being a bit better than the game it was created for. As a result, even an adequate guide suffers from the company it keeps.  There are fully descriptive sections on the characters, their defense systems, as well as a detailed walk through complete with maps. Unfortunately, if you follow the walk through, your $50 console game will take about 20 hours to complete (not counting some long script episodes) and you won't be a happy camper.  Slightly longer if you follow all the mini-games.<br /><br />On the other hand, without the guide the game will take forever to play, as you suffer the contunual frustration of figuring out the complicated battle system and some of the more obscure sidequests. So yes, you will benefit from the guide, just try to use it as little as possible or it will spoil the game rather than enhance it. I found the sidequest information particularily helpful.  Oddly enough I followed this strategy and thus missed a several oversights in the instructions for some subquests.  It was only when I went through the guide carefully that I discovered them, and it is a misstep that will keep you from completing an entire side quest.  You can still finish the game, but slightly irritated.<br /><br />Outside of that, this is one of the best guides I've seen in a while. It's printed on solid paperstock with excellent graphics and writing. Sometimes the battle instructions get a bit vague, but for the most part, a lot of information is presented in an effective manner. There are a few glitches and you are sometimes guided into approaching a boss battle the long way around when a more direct, brutal approach would actually be as effective.<br /><br />Because of the mentioned problem I have to give this a three star rating, although although everything else is excellent.  Be warned if you decide to buy it.	2005-02-26
342223:US	53082946	R1YPE1ZNMU7QGU	0743497848	922341911	This Immortal	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Feathers or Lead?	If I were to pick a single science fiction author who was the essence of speculative fiction in the 1960's it would be Roger Zelazny.  And while he continued to produce quality work, it was this period when both his quality and his intensity were at a peak that few authors ever reach.  This Immortal (AKA Call Me Conrad) is his first novel (closely tied with The Dream Master).  It remains a masterpiece four decades after winning a Hugo award and in many ways it defined the themes that haunted Zelazny's writing for years to come.<br /><br />Zelazny is fascinated with a certain form of divinity - not the kind that 'is and has always been,' but with intelligent creatures that somehow 'graduate' from a more normal, mundane state.  In this novel the hero is Conrad Nimikos, a Greek, born on Christmas Eve, one leg shorter than the other, and altogether too much hair.  In Greek terms, he was one of the kallikanzaroi, mischievous satyrs who exist to irritate both the human and the divine.  Zelazny never tells us how old Nimikos is, but he has lived long enough to have had several names and seen the Earth suffer a nuclear war and start to pick up the pieces.<br /><br />We were saved by the intervention of the Vegans who helped relocate the remnants of Earth's population throughout space and saw to the survival of those who chose to remain.  This was a mixed blessing, since the Vegans seems to want to turn Earth into a resort.  Nimikos fought that eventuality (under another name) but has merged into the current social framework as the caretaker of the world's antiquities and treasures.  Recently married, he is called from semi-retirement to be the guide for a Vegan journalist who might be writing a book, or looking for better places to put a resort, or something equally nefarious.  This will be an ill-starred journey, with many wishing Cort Myshtigo (the Vegan) a quick and unpleasant end, as they travel over a world both barren and beautiful, where danger can take epic proportions.<br /><br />And that's the trick of this particular book.  Nimikos no sooner leaves his beloved Cassandra when we realize that this is an Odyssey we have been invited on, and everywhere we look Greek legends will appear just in time to cause unexpected torments and provide opportunities for Herculean efforts.  Even though this is a story told in wry fashion, Zelazny manages to use it to explore the meaning of grief.  Sorrow for lost friends, loved ones, and an abiding sense of loss for an Earth that at the time of its writing was only showing faint glimmerings of it's future challenges.  This is a poignant book where Zelazny manages an exquisite balance between attitude and affection.<br /><br />Small wonder that the book has been in print since its writing.  Or that a host of other writers will confess to having been influenced by it.  The layering of action, myth, and symbol that became a Zelazny hallmark began with this story.  And it is hardly an insult to say while many of his books are as good there are none that are clearly better (well, I do have a soft spot for Isle of the Dead).ortions. <br /> <br />And that's the trick of this particular book.  Nimikos no sooner leaves his beloved Cassandra when we realize that this is an Odyssey we have been invited on, and everywhere we look Greek legends will appear just in time to cause unexpected torments and provide opportunities for Herculean efforts.  Even though this is a story told in wry fashion, Zelazny manages to use it to explore the meaning of grief.  Sorrow for lost friends, loved ones, and an abiding sense of loss for an Earth that at the time of its writing was only showing faint glimmerings of it's future challenges.  This is a poignant book where Zelazny manages an exquisite balance between attitude and affection. <br /> <br />Small wonder that the book has been in print since its writing.  Or that a host of other writers will confess to having been influenced by it.  The layering of action, myth, and symbol that became a Zelazny hallmark began with this story.  And it is hardly an insult to say while many of his books are as good there are none that are clearly better (well, I do have a soft spot for Isle of the Dead). <br />	2005-02-21
349293:US	53082946	R2RTIBRZXNEORH	0843944838	401933588	Hexes	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Evil Isn't Always As Evil Does	As the reader approaches this novel it quickly becomes apparent that there are few untainted souls in Summerfell.  And that today's heroes were yesterday's villains in a complex story of damnation for all the right reasons.  Something has haunted Summerfell for far longer than Summerfell has existed.  And now it has come to roost in the Galen family, in particular on Michael Galen and his friends.  Five years ago they unleashed the awful and now Michael has been drawn back to complete the bargain.<br /><br />Michael's friend A.G. has been locked up in Panecraft Asylum after being found clutching the skeleton of a woman on his porch, accompanied by an unconscious boy.  He is suspected of having murdered his girlfriend and has chosen retreat as his best defense.  Michael returns to find out what has happened and help if possible.  The two men share the bond of an unholy witchcraft - and the knowledge that Baphomet is rising, as the Prince of Evil's pentacle is engraved scar by scar on Michael's chest.<br /><br />The madness doesn't stay in Panecraft, which was founded by Michael's father, and was where his mother died.  It leaks out into wealthy citizens, policemen, and even the plain folk for whom Michael has always cared.  A horrific sacrifice has Michael and his friends searching for another killer, and the events of the present run in haunting parallel to those that drove Michael away five years ago.  This time, though, there is no easy walk to safety.<br /><br />Tom Picccirilli does something unique in telling this tale with no attempt at lengthy explanation.  We are made conscious of a continuing flow of ritual magic, but we never get bogged down in manuscript and incantation.  Instead, the reader is simply transplanted into a world where a perfectly ordinary high school athlete can also be an honors student of the occult.  And despite the steady degeneration of the town and its residents, we never lose faith in a hero who is half way to damnation.<br /><br />The author paints with quick, sure strokes.  He provides the framework for our own imaginings with enough detail for the reader to bring to life both the town and its somewhat loony characters.  In doing so Piccirilli makes the horror all out own in a book that builds to a conclusion that Hieronymus Bosch would have loved.  I like the way the visual context is evoked almost effortlessly, but never dominates the story.  Instead, you are given every possible opportunity to scare yourself, and sure enough, you do.  Piccirilli is one of those rare authors who know exactly what a story needs, and refuses to overdress the plot.<br />The author paints with quick, sure strokes.  He provides the framework for our own imaginings with enough detail for the reader to bring to life both the town and its somewhat loony characters.  In doing so Piccirilli makes the horror all out own in a book that builds to a conclusion that Hieronymus Bosch would have loved.  I like the way the visual context is evoked almost effortlessly, but never dominates the story.  Instead, you are given every possible opportunity to scare yourself, and sure enough, you do.  Piccirilli is one of those rare authors who know exactly what a story needs, and refuses to overdress the plot. <br />	2005-02-15
355001:US	53082946	R2ZAC4HH6NF9KC	1561582727	392172884	The Toolbox Book: A Craftsman's Guide to Tool Chests, Cabinets, and Storage Systems	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Fine Bookmaking about Fine Woodworking	I turn into a box-making junkie during the winter.  Every time I see a chunk of wood I start resawing it in my mind thinking of neat things I could do with it.  One of the side effects of this compulsion is that you accumulate a lot of odd tools that seem to meander all over the shop.  Guaranteed not to be in the place they should be when you reach for them.  After looking at the prices for good commercial tool chests it occurred to me that building one wouldn't be all that more expensive.  Even if it took 400 hours of work rather than a quit drive to the nearest discount store.<br /><br />A quick trip to the local woodworking store turned up several books on the subject, but one, Taunton's Toolbox Book, stood way out from the rest.  Even though this is the one book that has not one detailed plan in it.  It is, however, the most exhaustive study of toolbox making I've seen so far.  Author Jim Toplin blends history and technique together to give you a real understanding of how the toolbox has developed and changed as woodworkers first came to the colonies, then adapted to the rising use of machinery, and finally then met the space age head on.  It is carefully and clearly written, and a host of sketches makes up for the loss of detailed, paint-by-the-numbers plans.<br /><br />In fact one of the things that Toplin makes abundantly clear is that you make a toolbox to hold YOUR tools.  Too many of us buy a toolbox and then set about filling it with new widgets that we aren't even sure we will need.  And this book is about assessing your needs, laying out the best way to meet those needs, and then building something that is often the showpiece of a woodworker's skills.  One glance through the book and you will see many fine photographs of work that is both functional and beautiful.  I wasn't kidding when I said a toobox can take 400 hours to make.<br /><br />As usual, Taunton has made every effort to turn a how to book into something you would be proud to have on your coffee table.  This is a very well made paperback with heavy, glossy paper, fine design and layout work, and well-written text.  And a very accessible price for a massive amount of information.your coffee table.  This is a very well made paperback with heavy, glossy paper, fine design and layout work, and well-written text.  And a very accessible price for a massive amount of information.   <br />	2005-02-10
356110:US	53082946	R5563VCULFYEL	1587156563	803973656	The Book of Silence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Revenge is a Dish Best Fed to Someone Else	Garth the Overman has a knock for finding trouble.  First an angry basilisk, then a plague on the city of dark Gods, the a sword with an extremely bad temper.  Finally, with the damage to Skelleth repaired and trading reestablished, things have returned to a low rumble.  Having cause all these crises in the first place, Garth's welcome in the barren northern city was worn thin at best.  And  the City Council of Ordunin, his original home, felt the same way.  Separated from family, with few friends, Garth was reduced to drinking in the same tavern where the King in Yellow lived.  The only good thing about being stuck in a room with the high priest of Death was that he rarely said anything.<br /><br />Garth escapes the tedium by going on a dragon hunt only to discover that the dragon wasn't what he thought it would be and that some things had best be left alone.  And on his return to Skelleth he found that the cult of Aghad, the god of hatred and violence, had initiated a program of revenge against Garth.  Starting out by torturing and killing his wife.  Suddenly what had been a lighthearted story develops fangs as Garth launches his own revenge campaign - one that will totally change the world.<br /><br />To get what he wants, the return sword of Bheleu, Garth must agree to fetch The Book of Silence from its hiding place in the crypts of Ur-Dormulk.  The results of this quest are as expected - Ur-Dormulk is left facing total destruction, Garth gets the sword, the old king gets the book, and the cult of Aghad starts losing large numbers of worshippers.  But the story doesn't stop there.  Crisis after crisis must be faced right up to the end of time.<br /><br />As this series has progressed, Watt-Evans has taken what was at first a somewhat humorous adventure story and fleshed it out into a serious piece of fantasy in an era when all to much fantasy was either about magical princesses or sword waving barbarians.  In the process he deals with a few interesting theological questions about divine planning and the interruption thereof.  The books went on to be great successes in their time, Watt-Evans establish himself as a solid writer, and even today The Lord of Dus is a cult classic.  I find that they have lost none of their edge over the years since I first read them.  Consider this a strong recommendation.ological questions about divine planning and the interruption thereof.  The books went on to be great successes in their time, Watt-Evans establish himself as a solid writer, and even today The Lord of Dus is a cult classic.  I find that they have lost none of their edge over the years since I first read them.  Consider this a strong recommendation. <br />	2005-02-09
358323:US	53082946	RBYM0IVCCNRT3	1932047786	322617338	The Riddle of Cthulhu	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Time, the Forth Dimension	I don't generally dwell on typos in a vanity press book.  Accidents happen, and when you are doing most of the work yourself, they seem to happen more often.  But in this case the misspelling of 'fourth' turns out to be one of the highlights of the book.  And it does make a peculiar kind of sense.<br /><br />Ray Emerson's freshman novel is and adaption of Lovecraft's Cthulhu mythos into the context of an attack in the genetic structure of the human race.  Somewhere out in space, the Elder Gods (also known as 'good old squid-face') have devised a plan to take over the earth by using a comet to sprinkle us with alien DNA.  Now, faced with the sudden appearance of beautiful blond vampires who eat sailors, the secret agencies of the free world unite to stave of this horrific invasion.<br /><br />It's up to Detective Ulysses Martini and beautiful psychic Cybele Sikorsky to solve a string of ugly murders and chase the cause into the dark caverns and oceans beneath New Hampshire.  Or rather, that's what their doing when they're not in the bedroom.  Lovecraft, who I believe was something of a prude, will be turning over in his grave.<br /><br />What is interesting about this book is Emerson's efforts to develop scientific explanations for Lovecraft's evil creations.  He also tries to fit Cthulhu into Judeo-Christian mythology.  In neither case does he succeed well, since Lovecraft intended his creations to be just what they were - mysterious and terrifying denizens of a world gone dark.  Explanations will always ring false because they are never more than one person's opinion.  That Emerson has to modify Lovecraft a bit to make everything work doesn't help.<br /><br />The book is a little too roughly written, a little too focused on sex, and a little too prone to overblown language to be a success.  On the other hand, Emerson demonstrates a unique ability to explain the scientific complexities behind his story making.  There is potential here and the book does have it's moments.  My feeling is that, if Emerson were to learn how to flesh out his characters and build up his narrative, he could very easily be an entertaining writer.<br /><br />Be warned that the more you like Lovecraft, the more you are likely to be irritated by some of Emerson's reinterpretations.  The book lacks what we like best about Lovecraft, the brooding sense of doom that inhabits his horror stories.  If on the other hand you are looking for a breezy bit of heroic sci-fi you might very well like this story.erson were to learn how to flesh out his characters and build up his narrative, he could very easily be an entertaining writer.    Be warned that the more you like Lovecraft, the more you are likely to be irritated by some of Emerson's reinterpretations.  The book lacks what we like best about Lovecraft, the brooding sense of doom that inhabits his horror stories.  If on the other hand you are looking for a breezy bit of heroic sci-fi you might very well like this story.	2005-02-07
362851:US	53082946	R2THZWSGC7DGJA	033049032X	180507211	The Lamp of the Wicked (Merrily Watkins Mysteries)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	"Be sober, be vigilant..."	This is the second of Phil Rickman's stories featuring Merrily Watkins that I've read.  Originally, I wasn't sure that Merrily, who is an Anglican minister and Deliverance Consultant (exorcist) would be the kind of character that to whom I would be attracted.  Stories with romantic underpinnings put me off, and Kay Scarpetta stories have permanently put me off troublesome teenage daughters.  Because Rickman has written several horror stories that I like I decided to take the leap of faith.  I have to admit that I've been very pleasantly surprised.<br /><br />Let me say right off that if you are expecting these tales to be horror stories you are in for a surprise.  Rather, thing of them as detective/suspense with a spiritual element.  Merrily Watkins, having lost her husband, was drawn to the church, and then into the ministry.  When a surprising turn of events revealed some unexpected sensitivities, Merrily is trained as a Deliverance Consultant and given Ledwardine as her post.  With her is her daughter Jane, a seventeen-year-old with a sharp, questioning mind, who hovers between mature insight and girlish obstinacy.  Another frequent participant is Lol, a recovering addict and musician who has a close, but difficult relationship with Merrily.<br /><br />The Lamp of the Wicked starts out as the story of one serial killer, Roddy Lodge, who Merrily accidentally 'outs' while helping a friend.  But it quickly becomes the story of another killer entirely around whose periphery the likes of Roddy and the citizens of the town of Underhowle are entangled.  One killer dead for three years, and the other shortly into the book, this story is really about the web of evil that grew out of a set of chilling events in the past and how it took on a life of its own.  One doesn't exorcise ghosts, only demons, but hidden in a deserted Baptist chapel in Underhowle is something that desperately needs to be laid to rest.<br /><br />As Rickman likes to do, there are parallel themes that tangle the plot.  The foremost of these is a building study of the effects of close exposure to radiant power (as in electrical towers).  This has been an issue in the states for some time, but it rears its head in the little town of Underhowle as well.  Rickman comes up with enough facts to disquiet the reader as this thread moves from alien abduction to temporary insanity.  In addition to this, Jane is in the midst of a crisis of faith that has her in a permanently sarcastic and depressed mood.  In fact, all of the Ledwardine characters have something on their minds, from a contractor whose partner went up in flames with his business, to Lol, who is struggling with his fears of performing again.<br /><br />These stories are apt demonstrations of Rickman's abilities.  He brings to life this part of England with its conflicts between the modern and old with an easy, fluent style.  His characterization, no longer driven by the need to have inhuman monsters, has grown by leaps and bounds.  He manages to create interest in characters that seem unlikely heroes.  Even his theological meanderings avoid the dry or overly dramatic and simply become part of the developing atmosphere.<br /><br />The Lamp of the Wicked can stand by itself, but I found having read one of the early books helped in understanding some of the key relationships quickly.  As you might suspect, this helps.  But nothing happens that you can't work out on your own, so dive in where you may.remost of these is a building study of the effects of close exposure to radiant power (as in electrical towers).  This has been an issue in the states for some time, but it rears its head in the little town of Underhowle as well.  Rickman comes up with enough facts to disquiet the reader as this thread moves from alien abduction to temporary insanity.  In addition to this, Jane is in the midst of a crisis of faith that has her in a permanently sarcastic and depressed mood.  In fact, all of the Ledwardine characters have something on their minds, from a contractor whose partner went up in flames with his business, to Lol, who is struggling with his fears of performing again.    These stories are apt demonstrations of Rickman's abilities.  He brings to life this part of England with its conflicts between the modern and old with an easy, fluent style.  His characterization, no longer driven by the need to have inhuman monsters, has grown by leaps and bounds.  He manages to create interest in characters that seem unlikely heroes.  Even his theological meanderings avoid the dry or overly dramatic and simply become part of the developing atmosphere.    The Lamp of the Wicked can stand by itself, but I found having read one of the early books helped in understanding some of the key relationships quickly.  As you might suspect, this helps.  But nothing happens that you can't work out on your own, so dive in where you may.	2005-02-03
364685:US	53082946	R3Q6N4OLUV8JZX	1587156253	262852163	The Sword of Bheleu	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Never Look A Gift Sword In The Blade	In the world of good intentions run afoul of fate, Garth the overman occupies a special place.  What started out as a lone overman determined to have some impact on the world has turned into a trail of disasters.  It's not that Garth particularly relishes wanton slaughter and destruction, but they seem to follow him around.  But his last episode - stealing whatever was on the altars of the seven dark gods in Dusaarra - has left him with an unpleasant legacy.  Garth is now the wielder of the sword of Bheleu, and it has no intention of letting go of him.<br /><br />The sword has a nasty habit of taking over Garth's mind and inciting him to violence.  Having barely managed to keep his temper during the long trip back from Dusarra to Skelleth he finds that his wife has laid siege to Skelleth (suspecting that Garth was being held captive.  Far from straightening thing out, his arrival inflames a conflict that results in Skelleth becoming the spoils of a war that no sane overman would want to start.  Gerth is now faced with trying to find a way to undo the disaster at Skelleth and rid himself of the sword - without asking the King in Yellow for help.<br /><br />Others have noticed that Bheleu now has a avatar.  The priesthood of Aghad would like nothing better than to torture Garth to death for desecrating their temple.  And the council of wizard has reconvened to stop Garth before the world has to deal with 30 years of increasing destruction.  Needless to say, our overman is in hot water, and wherever he turns, someone is turning up the heat.  If he doesn't find a solution he is slated to live a short life for an on of his kind.<br /><br />At this point it is unclear whether Garth is hero or anti-hero.  Occasionally he does a good deed or two, and he never really intends to wipe out whole priesthoods or the guards of  an entire city.  But the peculiarities of overman logic make him a crisis magnet.  And nothing he tries works out.  Lawrence Watt-Evans has created a truly hapless hero and made him surprisingly sympathetic and believable.  As the tale has moved along, it has developed a complex story with serious overtones, but it has never lost its sense of the irreverent, and this is what makes this much more than a fantasy adventure story.  Recommended.truly hapless hero and made him surprisingly sympathetic and believable.  As the tale has moved along, it has developed a complex story with serious overtones, but it has never lost its sense of the irreverent, and this is what makes this much more than a fantasy adventure story.  Recommended. <br />	2005-02-01
366057:US	53082946	RZP8WED3HFONJ	1861081766	975242104	Making Heirloom Boxes	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Practical Artwork	Peter Lloyd is a noted British box maker who has a unique style all his own.  Although, if questioned, I believe that Lloyd would claim that his style is the wood's own, since his work is an interesting combination of the use of natural wood in his work often with a deceptively rustic touch.  He will often use shaping to highlight the interesting features of the wood, with attractive details like wood hinges.<br /><br />In \\"Making Heirloom Boxes\\" Lloyd focuses in on several of his characteristic works and takes a deep dive in the making of each one.  While I don't always 'like' what Lloyd does, his integrity of design and approach are admirable.  As you dig into his processes you get glimpses of the mind behind than.  In the end you get both a set of advanced lessons in box making, and a good study of what it means to be an artist and craftsman.<br /><br />Despite Lloyd's comfortable writing style, I found myself in difficulties a few times due to subtle differences in language use.  Occasionally you will find yourself staring at a sentence or the title of a photograph with no immediate clue of what is going on.  It takes a bit of study and contemplation before all becomes clear.  There is an accidental benefit to this, because the reader is forced to think out the work, which is something we do all to rarely.<br /><br />This is also an excellent study of one man's workshop, one that came into being slowly and makes use of 'found' or made tools, rather than the more common habit of equipping a workshop with a lot of expensive gear.  On several occasions Lloyd will be describing how he sets up to do one thing or another and you will find yourself amazed at the lengths Lloyd will actually go to not have a $1500 router table.  I can't say that I blame him in the least - I'll be paying for my workshop all the way into my next life.<br /><br />Taken in all this is an excellent look at the philosophy, style, and processes of one of box making's shining stars.  Something of a practical autobiography.  I didn't any brilliant design ideas from it simply because Lloyd's style is very individual.  But I picked up a lot of little clues that will help me work out my own style.ething of a practical autobiography.  I didn't any brilliant design ideas from it simply because Lloyd's style is very individual.  But I picked up a lot of little clues that will help me work out my own style. <br />	2005-01-31
373133:US	53082946	R2ZQI5U4D8F0LP	0345339614	655278392	The Seven Altars of Dusarra: (#2) (The Lords of Dus, Bk 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	On the Road Again	Garth the Overman and Korg the trusty warbeast are back in Skelleth, this time to try to establish a trade mission that could be of great importance to the inhabitants of the Northern Waste.  Initially Korg and some of his relatives have great success, but Korg once again has a run in with the Baron of Skelleth.  After their last conflict the Baron would like nothing better than Garth's head, but seeing some opportunity, he instead insists that Garth swear fealty in return for trading rights.  Anyone who knpws overmen will tell you that isn't going to work.  Garth, furious at the Baron's impertinence, sits down with the King in Yellow again and hammers out a deal.<br /><br />The King wants whatever Garth finds on the seven altars of Dussara and promises that carrying out that task will give Garth what he wants in Skelleth in the process.  Even Garth has figured out that deals with the King in Yellow always have a hitch to them - and proceeds cautiously.  This time the trip is less harrowing with only one village on that way, one with an annoying prophecy.  Soon Garth is in the night city of Dusarra, planning his thefts.<br /><br />Seven alters with gems, potential victims and, yes, even dust, are all that lie between Garth and victory over the Baron of Skelleth.  For Garth, who has teetered on the edge of crisis since leaving the northern wastes, they are seven opportunities for disaster and there is more than a little question about whether either Garth of Dusarra will survive.<br /><br />This is the second volume is a series that will eventually be referred to as 'The Lords of Dus.'  Watt-Evans shows a surer footing in this telling about the Prince of a magically created people who have been exiled for 350 years to the northern wastes.  Garth wants to make a difference in his world, but it not entirely clear on how to go about it.  His adventures in the first volume lead him to return to the world below and Watt-Evans has created a second, light-hearted, story that under line the problems that can occur when cultures clash in unexpected places.<br /><br />Watt-Evan's writes well, although he tends to over engineer his action, and relies too much on descriptive passages to fill out his book.  Since The Seven Altars of Dusarra is short, it never really bogs down.  But every once in a while there is a hitch, as when the author spends too much time describing which hand he moves what object too while trying to do two things at once.  Don't let that put you off though, this is a classic series, which is mostly for fun and the intriguing device of having an 'alien' creature as a main character.  This is classic fantasy, with a twist.tory that under line the problems that can occur when cultures clash in unexpected places. <br /> <br />Watt-Evan's writes well, although he tends to over engineer his action, and relies too much on descriptive passages to fill out his book.  Since The Seven Altars of Dusarra is short, it never really bogs down.  But every once in a while there is a hitch, as when the author spends too much time describing which hand he moves what object too while trying to do two things at once.  Don't let that put you off though, this is a classic series, which is mostly for fun and the intriguing device of having an 'alien' creature as a main character.  This is classic fantasy, with a twist. <br />	2005-01-26
375580:US	53082946	R22GXG90YMW2HF	1587155877	158243150	The Lure of the Basilisk (Lords of Dus)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	"But then, they were merely humans..."	Garth, Prince of  Ordunin, Lord of the Overmen of the Northern Waste, doesn't want much.  He is tired of being inconsequential in the grand scheme of things and wants to be remembered by everyone in the world, as long as anyone remains alive.  Having demanded advice from the local oracles he gets a surprising answer.  Go to the worn out town of Skelleth, and offer his services to a worn out beggar dressed in a tacky yellow robe.  He does, and thereby hangs this tale.<br /><br />Garth receives the first of what will become a series of quests, to retrieve the first animal he finds in the crypts beneath Mormoreth.  Easier said, of course, than done.  Marmoreth is a deserted city ruled over by the enchanter, Shang.  Various robbers and brigands, all in Shang's pay, watch the road to Marmoreth.  And Korg, Garth's giant warbeast is perpetually hungry.  Oh!  I forgot!  The only animal in the crypts of Marmoreth is a basilisk.  An irritable, poisonous, and generally impossible basilisk.<br /><br />As Garth works his way through the twists of this quest with an engineer's attention to detail, and a slight tendency to be absent minded at critical moments, we get occasional glimpses of how humans would look to another intelligent life form.  Somewhat insane, of course.  Even to someone on a quest as insane as moving a basilisk cross-country.<br /><br />Watt-Evans fills his story with little wry moments that mave all two hundred pages enjoyable.  With the advantage of years, we know that this first effort turned itself into an entire series, with Garth becoming the perfect outsider whose encounters with humanity (and the King in Yellow) inevitably have unexpected results.	2005-01-24
378590:US	53082946	R12WBVUWDVM160	0451459962	910050414	Murder of Angels	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	These Things Happen	This is the sequel to 'Silk,' which was the very first Kiernan story I read.  I liked that tale quite a bit, but the intervening years have wrought a considerable change in Kiernan's approach.  She has become more polished, more story-centric, and even better at character development.  I think 'Murder of Angels' is the best novel Kiernan has written so far, and that is not in any way a criticism of her previous efforts.<br /><br />The center stage of the novel is occupied by two of the 'Silk' veterans.  One is Niki Ky, a Vietnamese woman whose emotional ties with Spyder Baxter (Silk's dark central character) have left her a functional, but borderline schizophrenic.  The other is Daria Parker, a struggling musician in the first novel and a successful one now.  The two are lovers - Daria caught in the web of trying to help someone who never gets any better.  Daria loses herself in her music, and Niki clings to her nightmares as an escape of her own.  Both were marred by the horror of Spyder's death and wend their tortuous way in a relationship that has begun to leak at the cracks.<br /><br />But just because Spyder died in this world, does not mean that what she has become has ended in all the worlds that reality borders on.  Still tortured by the memory of her abusive father, Spyder lives on as the Weaver.  In the place that the final events in 'Silk' catapulted her into Spyder has become a rebellious figure, distorting a new reality to meet her own purposes.  There her enemy is the Dragon, who is a presence in the story, but never makes a direct appearance.  Here struggle has turned the Dragon into a spiritual synonym for her father.  This is threatening to ruin one world, and even to spill over into ours.<br /><br />Niki becomes central to Spyder's plans.  She is the Hierophant in her ex-lover's plans to expel the Dragon.  She is pursues by red witches and dark minions as Spyder leads her to the bridge between the worlds and brings her face to face with something that will test her every strength.  Daria, ridden with guilt over placing career before love, rides to the rescue, herself crowded by portents, dreams, and messengers.  She is on a quest to retrieve the philter, something needed for the Hierophant to complete the ritual that Spyder is trying to fulfill.<br /><br />Using very clear and solid strokes, Kiernan takes us back and forth between realities without ever leaving the reader lost in the shuffle.  She is not the kind of horror writer that sprays blood over her pages, which makes this kind of mythological story especially difficult to write and keep up interest.  'Murder of Angels' is a genuine accomplishment, proof that a complicated story where things are not all black and white can maintain interest to the point of real involvement by the beholder.  The only fault is one that is common in this kind of story.  The ending comes too swiftly - as if Kiernan so cared for her characters that she was reluctant to let them go until the last moment.<br /><br />This novel can be read in standalone mode, but it will require a vivid imagination to fill in the blanks.  To really 'get' everything that happens in 'Murder of Angels' I think reading 'Silk' is a required first course.  Since both books are good, this shouldn't be a drawback.strength.  Daria, ridden with guilt over placing career before love, rides to the rescue, herself crowded by portents, dreams, and messengers.  She is on a quest to retrieve the philter, something needed for the Hierophant to complete the ritual that Spyder is trying to fulfill.    Using very clear and solid strokes, Kiernan takes us back and forth between realities without ever leaving the reader lost in the shuffle.  She is not the kind of horror writer that sprays blood over her pages, which makes this kind of mythological story especially difficult to write and keep up interest.  'Murder of Angels' is a genuine accomplishment, proof that a complicated story where things are not all black and white can maintain interest to the point of real involvement by the beholder.  The only fault is one that is common in this kind of story.  The ending comes too swiftly - as if Kiernan so cared for her characters that she was reluctant to let them go until the last moment.    This novel can be read in standalone mode, but it will require a vivid imagination to fill in the blanks.  To really 'get' everything that happens in 'Murder of Angels' I think reading 'Silk' is a required first course.  Since both books are good, this shouldn't be a drawback.	2005-01-21
379870:US	53082946	R323C572MHFW5E	0744004780	653168407	Suikoden IV Official Strategy Guide	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Lost in the Ocean	As I sat down to write this review it occurred to me that it is very difficult for the Strategy Guide for a partially flawed RPG to be anything else but flawed.  That some of the problems with the game will inevitably wash over into the guide.  However, this guide has flaws of its own that should be addressed.<br /><br />One upon a time, publishers took the creation of strategy guides very seriously.  The idea was to produce something that had more depth than the normal walkthrough found online, and led the player into areas of the game that would normally get short shrift if one was simply to play for the ending.  Lately though, the guide has become part of the marketing plan, and is often written before the game is even set in stone.  That seems to be the case here.<br /><br />Suikoden IV is a skimpy game.  Thus it is no surprise that the 75 pages dedicated to the walkthrough are mostly charts and pictures with a very minimal amount of text.  In addition, the writers have the modern knack of not always explaining things in logical order, so that one gets to the end of a sequence only to discover that something important got left out.  Since Suikoden IV isn't a complicated game, the guide should have been much more player friendly.  Following the walkthrough are 82 pages of short biographies and facts about each of the 108 'stars' of the game.  Exactly the same information appears in the walkthrough, so the purpose of this section is to flesh out the guide to some respectable size.  The net result is that this is more of a souvenir than a game guide.<br /><br />There are mistakes in the text as well, although there is nothing so serious as to ruin the game, there are a couple places where the mystery of how to move the game forward is obscure, and Suikoden IV is not a game where being forced to wander unnecessarily is as much of a pleasure as it should be.  Another thing that caused this reviewer to have a short fit of pique it is the complete lack of a map of the world ocean.  Instead it resorts to vague or no directions.  And wandering the waves may be something that Suikiden's creators think is the height of game play, but this player found it exorbitantly tedious.  There are better ways to level up than killing a lot of hairballs (and deadly albino roosters).<br /><br />I would recommend holding off until the regular online walkthrough sources get caught up with the game.  Not only is that a cheap alternative, but there is nothing about the production of this guide that makes it particularly satisfying to own.  Production and writing are mediocre at best.  If it weren't for the fact that the game is just illogical enough to need a walkthrough (marketing ploy, no doubt) I would tell you this time it is better to work it out yourself.resorts to vague or no directions.  And wandering the waves may be something that Suikiden's creators think is the height of game play, but this player found it exorbitantly tedious.  There are better ways to level up than killing a lot of hairballs (and deadly albino roosters).    I would recommend holding off until the regular online walkthrough sources get caught up with the game.  Not only is that a cheap alternative, but there is nothing about the production of this guide that makes it particularly satisfying to own.  Production and writing are mediocre at best.  If it weren't for the fact that the game is just illogical enough to need a walkthrough (marketing ploy, no doubt) I would tell you this time it is better to work it out yourself.	2005-01-20
387413:US	53082946	R2TOBI4UJAPJWD	0345464028	579397011	Iron Council	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Revolution Descending the Staircase	There are several stories woven together in this novel - another on the New Crobuzon series (if you would call that a series).  The very first is an expedition of New Crobuzon 'rebels' let by Cutter, setting out to find Judah Low and the Iron Council.  The second theme is Judah's own tale - an observer and prospector for a new cross-country railroad, then a mage, and then a revolutionary.  This is inextricably bound up with the tale of the train itself - slowly moving across the face of the world as the track is built, finally revolting from its overlords, workers and train taking off on their own.  The strange ecology that comes into being as a feral train and those that keep it independent and moving it the Iron Council.  Now something of a legend back in New Crobuzon, and hated by those it rebelled against.<br /><br />Back in the city itself, the themes of oppression and revolution play themselves out.  Ori, a young man, is drawn into the mild sedition or an organization (perhaps it is a 'dys'organization) called the Caucus.  These meet secretively, engage in mild guerilla politics, but are mostly a discussion forum.  Finally dissatisfied, he shifts to a more violent form of protest, let by the bull-headed Toro on a quest to kill New Crobuzon's mayor and bring down the current regime.  New Crobuzon itself returns as a major theme, much like the one it played in Perdido Street Station.  But while that book saw the city as something vitally and sometimes fearfully alive with both horrors and delights, Iron Council presents a picture of a degenerating social class struggle, a collapsing economy, and an increasing oppressive government.<br /><br />The stories are sometimes disjoint, but inevitably intertwined, as the Iron Council becomes less a group of angry train builders and more a symbol for what is happening in the city.  The great, peripatetic path of the Iron Council leads inevitably back to the city.  The war with the Tesh rides on the insurgency.  Judah, Cutter, and Ori are the players that tie these threads together into an unnerving tapestry straight out of Hieronymus Bosch.<br /><br />When an author who has been consistently excellent falls short of his previous efforts, there is a tendency for the reviewer to be excessively critical in response.  While I intend to avoid that extreme, Iron Council has some very real flaws that deserve some attention.  The first is the extremely slow start of the story lines.  Most of the first half of the book is the history of Judah and the train.  While the core facts of this history are vital to an understanding of the story to come, Mieville seizes on the opportunity to show off his control of language.  Scenery is described in almost excruciating detail and the writing style, full or portent and metaphor is florid, even to the point of invented words.  By the time the story became more than historical narrative this reader was feeling a bit dazed, and I had a great deal of trouble re-establishing my reading momentum.<br /><br />On top of considerable linguistic skills, Mieville is an extremely inventive author.  But in Iron Council he, like the city itself, becomes too dependent on mechanism.  Judah is a golem master, and these creations play dues ex machine roles in moving the story forward.  Just as the city makes monsters out of human, machine, and animal parts, Mieville constructs his own version of the English language, with its own occasional horrors.  The reader is often undecided if he is reading a work of fiction, a metaphoric autobiography, or something written purely for display.<br /><br />If not as readable as Mieville's previous books, this is still a landmark effort and should be accorded respect.  It isn't a 'reader friendly' book - none of the New Crobuzon novels are really that - but it is one that generates both thought and new ideas in the reader.  If you are new to the series, start with Perdido Street Station, since this story is very much embedded in thatone.  If you are looking for stylistic parallels then you will find Mieville's facility with language quite similar to Umberto Eco's, and can make your decision accordingly.ed in that one.  If you are looking for stylistic parallels then you will find Mieville's facility with language quite similar to Umberto Eco's, and can make your decision accordingly. <br />	2005-01-14
390248:US	53082946	R25BV8DKSMWLB0	0553254510	309721087	The Light at the End	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Nastiness Bites	Thanks to Skipp and Spector, we have come to know the dark truth about what lurks in the subterranean realm of New York's sewers.  When I first read this book nearly 20 years ago this backdrop, coupled with a fresh and innovate plot quickly made it one of my favorite horror stories.  Not all vampires are romantic.  What would happen if  a local jerk happens to meet up with the kind of evil that turns subway trains into bloodbags, and is 'drafted' into a new world.  You would get a jerky vampire, of course, and Rudy Pasko is just as unpleasant dead as he is alive.<br /><br />From his subterranean demesne Rudy sets about being nasty and all that stands between him and world dominion is strange cast of characters that include truck drivers, messengers, students, game players, and would be writers.  That and a few forces even bleaker than Rudy himself.  Badness is due to happen, not all will survive, and the tunnel turns out to have a few extra kinks.  Spector and Skipp write in a helter-skelter style that catches the edginess of life on the fringe of New York City - out there where the glamour doesn't ever go.<br /><br />For all the adventure of pushing the limits of horror Skipp and Spector remember that what scares you are the things you can't get used to, not a continuous flow of gore and the result is a story that is both chilling and magnetic.  They are not by any means the first to use graphic imagery (Straub's Floating Dragon still haunts me today) but the are the first to bring nitty gritty characters into the spotlight and make this story as much about them as it is by the world's most offensive vampire.<br /><br />A great deal of 'aura' has grown up around this book.  Most of this concerns its role in the horror genre and as a source for the 'splatterpunk' as a writing style.  To some degree this is true, but much depends on your definition of splatterpunk, a term which was originally coined by David Schow and arose more from George Romero's films than written literature.  Skipp and Spector's own definition can be found in the introduction to the hard cover edition.  The bluntest definition is a radical relaxing of what society considers good taste and a tendency to make heroes out of folks who would normally be villains and bystanders.<br /><br />The odd thing is that, despite the graphic violence of The Light at the End, it never really lapses into bad taste, and the ragtag group that takes one the world's uncoolest vampire are quite sympathetic in spite of their flaws.  So Skipp and Spector in their first (and I thing their best) effort were openers of the way more than the darkest of practitioners.  This alone is the book worth searching out and reading if your taste runs to the grimly humorous.  In the authors' later work the need to be unnerving began to erode the desire to have a good story.  But this time they were spot on and its well worth hunting up a copy.  Whether you care about it's significance to literary history or not.written literature.  Skipp and Spector's own definition can be found in the introduction to the hard cover edition.  The bluntest definition is a radical relaxing of what society considers good taste and a tendency to make heroes out of folks who would normally be villains and bystanders. <br /> <br />The odd thing is that, despite the graphic violence of The Light at the End, it never really lapses into bad taste, and the ragtag group that takes one the world's uncoolest vampire are quite sympathetic in spite of their flaws.  So Skipp and Spector in their first (and I thing their best) effort were openers of the way more than the darkest of practitioners.  This alone is the book worth searching out and reading if your taste runs to the grimly humorous.  In the authors' later work the need to be unnerving began to erode the desire to have a good story.  But this time they were spot on and its well worth hunting up a copy.  Whether you care about it's significance to literary history or not. <br />	2005-01-12
398205:US	53082946	R21J1Q4SRPEQQ	0809500256	934059293	Toast	Books	4	33	33	N	Y	It Always Lands on the Buttery Side.	I am not a short story fan, which is odd, given my mouldering span of attention.  But there is something irritating about a tale that is over just when you start to 'get' it.  But I am a Charles Stross fan, one who discovered him late, and while desperately waiting for another novel to appear, I decided to try out his shorter output via this retrospective volume selected out by the author himself.<br /><br />Stross has an incredibly wide-ranging imagination.  He writes hard science fiction about very far out ideas.  In fact the very first story here, Antibodies, is about a theoretical idea whose very existence can threaten reality.  From there we go one to the economics of information in a very virtual universe, the coffee club that ate the world, what H. P. Lovecraft only suspected, and other, equally peculiar tales.<br /><br />Stross's tongue is always squarely in his check, even as he displays an impressive intellect and a deep understanding of what the world inside a geek's head really looks like.  I'm to old to be considered a geek any longer, but it is fascinating to read Stross's own spin on what was interesting about my own generation of 'techies' (the title story).  And there is even a delightfully ironic narrative about a Y2K apocalypse cruise.<br /><br />While I haven't been converted to a short story lover, my faith in one of the odder minds out there producing quality science fiction has been confirmed.  This is a writer who first made his mark as a short fiction writer.  If you want to see what the fuss is about, with the added pleasure of occasional comments by the author, start here.	2005-01-06
405382:US	53082946	R15Q41D7TM6IKO	1561585971	733899599	Taunton's Complete Illustrated Guide to Using Woodworking Tools	Books	5	65	65	N	N	Starting Out Right	It's not like me to wax poetic over a an introductory how-to book, but Lonnie Bird's tome on Using Woodworking Tools really is one of the finest effots I've ever seen.  Taunton continues to set the bar with their 'complete illustrated' guides, but this one is exceptional for even that series.<br /><br />The book offers 15 chapters divides into parts - 1) Wood and the Shop, 2) Outfitting the Shop, 3) Benches, Clamps, and Assembly, 4) Hand Tools, and 5) Power Tools.  Each chapter lays in the basics and then goes on to provide a good deal of insight into the less obvious things one can accomplish with a given tool or process.  The end result is a book that works at a beginners level, but retains its worth well into advanced woodworking.<br /><br />Excellent illustration and layout are the standard here.  I have a long standing gripe with books that use good looking models posing around brand new equipment, usually in the wrong position to do what they are attempting without losing a finger.  One look at these photos, and you know you are in someone's shop.  Not a new shop, but one that has come together over time, with an owner who values good tools new or used.<br /><br />The text is thoughtful, straightforward, and well-written.  In fact the only flaw in Using Woodworking Tools is that it is a bit more costly than many introductory books.  But it has far more lasting value than most of its competition.  I would rate this a best buy for the both introductory and shop reference use.	2005-01-01
413601:US	53082946	R2CGIYQN6J55LA	1890621358	649929404	The Complete Book of Woodworking: Detailed Plans for More Than 40 Fabulous Projects	Books	3	72	76	N	N	The Not Quite Complete Book of...	I've been hesitant to review this book because, despite its title it is by no means a 'complete' book, and yet it is well written, and what it does it does well.  It is well written, and covers many of the important subjects - Setting Up Shop, Designing Projects, Introduction to Wood, Joints, Finishes, etc.  And it provides a host of projects suitable to the beginner.  It's hard to fault what it does do, but there are several problems with what it doesn't do.<br /><br />First and foremost of these gaps is that the book is entirely power tool oriented.  Given that a woodworker rapidly gets surrounded by a host of machines, it never hurts to spend time on saws, planes, and the other hand tools that are part of good woodworking.  Good hand tools are berely cheaper than machine tools, and selecting the right ones is one key to achieving top-grade results.<br /><br />The book flies too high to provide important detail on the tools that it does cover.  Power saws, planers, drill presses and anything else require knowledge in order to be used safely and successfully.  And to make the right choices when purchasing.  This book would serve best the beginner who has access to a full shop, not one who is in the process of putting a shop together.<br /><br />The projects are very straightforward - too simple in some cases to keep the attention of someone who wants to attain levels of artistry.  There is no effort to rank the projects by complexity, or connect the skills required to section of the book.  This can trap a beginner into a task that takes experience to complete.  I'm also informed that some of the shopping lists are incorrect, so make a point of checking before buying.  Nothing is more irritating than having something become scrap because you followed the directions.<br /><br />So be warned that this book is of the greatest value t someone who is both a complete beginner and has access to a full shop.  Access to a competent woodsmith wouldn't hurt either.  If you fit in that niche the this could be a satisfactory purchase.  If not look about you.  Several of Taunton Press's efforts may be more useful to you.you fit in that niche the this could be a satisfactory purchase.  If not look about you.  Several of Taunton Press's efforts may be more useful to you.	2004-12-24
414121:US	53082946	R2XIFGRIBUV1DR	1588468186	189369945	Dark Ages: Assamite	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	"I can have no other love..."	It never fails that, just when I think a Masquersade series is going to be all data and little play, along comes a book that surprises me with both a high level of action (for a World of Darkness book) and a well written and novel story line.  Assamite is a notch above the norm on several accounts - far enough so that the book can pretty well stand on its own.<br /><br />The Assamite in the center is called Amala, on of the deadly assassins who lair at Alumet.  These vampires have strong ties with the Muslim faith and thus are the natural enemies of the Crusade.  Amala, her companion Sihr Haddad, and Fajr, an itinerant of Amala's clan join to spy on the recent events at Constantinople and take whatever action will protect the faithful.  You will also encounter the redoubtable Fatima al-Faqadi, who was th main character of the the previous Assamite volume in the first clan series.<br /><br />This story could have also been titled Ventrue, after the clan of the vampire Knight Templar who draws Amala's attention and even manages to penetrate her discipline far enough to bring her to the edge of faltering.  Sir Hugh of Clairvaux is of precisely the opposite disposition of faith than Amala.  Not only is he deeply religious, but an encounter under Constantinople with a Lamia has left him convinced he is privy to Mary's own confidences.  He has been inspired to take the Crusade to Egypt, which was the original target.<br /><br />The relationshi between these two throws both into a crisis of faith as Amala finds Hugh quoting the Quran in his sleep, and Amala's pose as a simple vampire maid proves overwhelmingly attractive to Hugh.  This creates tensions among both their followers, and the resulting novel is both complex and rich in character development.  Expect more than a few surprising developments as well.<br /><br />We have had two novels in a row that turn on religious issues in a time when spiritual belief was far more important to vampire society and the Masquerade was still a twinkling in the eyes of the clans.  I hope the story develops in other directions as well, but I have to confess that this intensity serves as a reminder that, whatever else they are, most vampires still have a lot of human nature left to them.  The players in this volume are very much children of their times as well as spooky creatures with beast centers.<br /><br />There is a lot to enjoy and be intrigued by in this effort by Stefan Petrucha.  If you are considering reading the series, this is probably a better start than Nosferatu, which is harder book to read.yes of the clans.  I hope the story develops in other directions as well, but I have to confess that this intensity serves as a reminder that, whatever else they are, most vampires still have a lot of human nature left to them.  The players in this volume are very much children of their times as well as spooky creatures with beast centers.    There is a lot to enjoy and be intrigued by in this effort by Stefan Petrucha.  If you are considering reading the series, this is probably a better start than Nosferatu, which is harder book to read.	2004-12-24
416770:US	53082946	R3QGTM96VG5A0U	156504827X	225132189	Tremere (Clan Novel: Vampire - The Masquerade)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Blood Black Magic	For some inexplicable reason, the Tremere, who should be one of the most interesting of clans, seem to always wind up embroiled in tedium.  Part of this is the nature of the tribe itself - tightly organized, perfectionist, and ritual bound.  To many of the mainstream clan members are more focused on didactic interests and true action.  Such is Johnston Foley, Regent Secundus or the Five Boroughs Chantry.  He is irritating, vindictive, and foolish enough to assay things without consultation. A burden to his Primus, Aisling Sturbridge.<br /><br />Foley's future is neither mysterious not unwelcome, and it falls to Aisling to seek the truth of it.  Unfortunately author Eric Griffen allows the story to become distracted by its own details.  Instead of a fully satisfying conclusion with are greeted by several counterplots that can only increase the number of question.  This close to the end of the series one has to wonder if there ever really will be a conclusion.<br /><br />The Tremere of much of their power as thaumaturges to the practice if diablerie - drinking the blood of more ancient undead.  This makes others wary of them, and has convinced the Assamites to hunt them out as abominations.  As a result a Tremere is always in danger when outside the chantry.  In this case though the danger is from within, and Aisling is distracted by the challenges of her own past.<br /><br />If only Griffen had allowed himself to craft a focused plot instead of indulged himself in an orgy of details that do not further the story.  There are Clan books for that sort of thing, and a fair number of peripheral novels that delve into the Tremere (see the Victorian Vampire series, among others.  This book comes excruciatingly close to being a good novel only to render itself into a useful textbook.  Sometimes I think that the Eye of Hazimel gets to have all the fun.	2004-12-21
417751:US	53082946	R2IYY11EHZL0RV	1565048253	658452014	Clan Novel: Brujah (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Turn About Is Fair Play	In a sanctioned series like this the reader knows that it is only a matter fo time before the Camarilla start to fight back.  After all, it wouldn't do to wipe out half the point behind a popular game.  And it should no surprise that the Brujah turn up on the front lines of the battle.  Archon Theo Bell is an example of what is good about the Brujah clan traits.  He is tough, intelligent, subtle when he needs to be, and capable of shocking violence when that is the best solution.<br /><br />Back against the wall, the prince of the city dead, Baltimore looks pretty much like Sabbat meat.  If nothing is done, the Camarilla will lose the east coast entirely.  To Bell falls the responsibility for organizing a campaign that will snatch a surprise victory from the fangs of defeat.  And he is an expert at his job.<br /><br />If the Giovanni novel was a vampire version of a mobster novel, Brujah is the war story of the series.  Archon Bell must deal with mysterious killings, recalcitrant Justicars, and a host of vampires that would love to see him dead.  Betrayal and hidden agendas are the rules of the conflict as one side tries to out-bite the other.  As the intensity grows, the action shifts to Manhattan for a series of surprises.  Be warned, things get VERY violent.<br /><br />Arguable, this is Fleming's best book of the series.  He's past the point of having to provide collateral details and has focused head down on the story.  The result is a tight narrative in a most untypical vampire story.  As with Giovanni, the only problem is that is can't be read out of order without giving things away too early.  Yes, this sells books, but I would like to see more effort in creating novels that sold the idea of the game better.	2004-12-20
418369:US	53082946	R2FSTXSAU0E4TT	1565048032	756504313	Gangrel (Vampire: The Masquerade Clan Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Through An Eye, Darkly	For a change this is very much one character's tale. Ramona is a second year Gangrel, member of a tribe that is more independent than Camarilla, but less dark minded than the Sabbat. They are the wild hunters of the vampire worlds, often used by the elders for enforcement.<br /><br />Ramona has never really bought into the vampire ethos, and is locked in a perpetual struggle with her beast. Her relationships with mortals and kindred are troubled. Now, her feelings for young Zhavon will drive her to finally face what she has become, at the same time that the bring her to the brink of destruction.<br /><br />For the Eye of Hazimel, a true instrument of chaos, is loose in the city. Now the possession of the sculptor Leopold, the eye has little patience with vampire sensibilities. It brings insanity and ruin, and has an agenda all it's own. As vampire elders and clans struggle with events leading to a mysterious confrontation at Table Rock, Ramona must find a way to survive.<br /><br />In something of a turn-about Gherbod Fleming, a long time maker of the Masquerade world, produces an enjoyable action novel. His insights into the life of the Gangrel, on of the games most troubled clan are unique. He is in tune with the grim realities of vampire life, where nothing can be trusted in the night, and sensitivity to the real nobility behind and outlaw clan give this book much of its depth.<br /><br />Of course, the underlying style is still game-centric, where the novels serve the game. This means the story often makes jagged progress or gets lost in heavy detail. Flemings characters also tend to muse more often than they drink. But this is one of this series better efforts, offering a vision that will challenge many fans.	2004-12-20
418739:US	53082946	R1XKPD17BBTCRJ	1565048261	77956721	Clan Novel Giovanni (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Packing Fangs Instead of Guns	Clan Giovanni are neutrals in the conflict between Camarilla and Sabbat.  In vampire terms that means they are out for themselves and devil take the hindmost.  At their best they are the business people of the darkness, at there worst (which is often) they are simple gangsters only slightly smoother than the Brujah.  Don't expect a Giovanni to be polite unless they have to be.<br /><br />Chaz Giovanni Tello, is more goon than smart guy,  Even so, he is likable - if you are drawn to people with excess potty-mouth and a huge sadistic streak.  Still, his character is alive, and he has a certain flair.  Assigned to find the missing Benito Giovanni, Chaz descends on Las Vegas and proceeds to wreak havoc, even if he comes up short on results.  His path crosses that of Isabel Giovanni who is in the midst of negotiations with the clans of the Camerilla and Sabbat.<br /><br />Complications develop immediately as Isabel realizes that wherever Benito has vanished to, there is bad news for her clan.  Something dark is hunting them, something even darker that the Giovanni themselves.<br /><br />While this novel is typical of the series in that it rarely offers an explanation and confuses more than it clears.  It is my favorite of the series.  Achilli shows a genuine flair for deadpan comedy, especially when he takes Chaz through his paces.  Characters seem to pop off the page, and go into action.  Undead proof that it is possible to write a Masquerade novel that doesn't have the pace of a textbook.  I only wish Achilli has made a stronger effort to make this a completely standalone story.  This is a fine example of why the Masquerade has so many fans.	2004-12-19
420528:US	53082946	R2GCGWNVAJ1RMF	1565048091	264524609	Clan Novel Assamite (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Killer Killers	Assamites are one of the most intriguing vampire clans. Warriors, scholars, and sorcerers, they are assassins most often used to take down other vampires. They are in a private war with the Tremere, who are vampires made by means of blood magic whom the Assamites see as an abomination. White Wolf has carefully modeled them after the legendary Muslim cult, and the spiritual and religious context of the Assamites is strongly Arabic in tone. Which adds to their mystery.<br /><br />This volume expands on the Assamite role in the struggles for supremacy in the US. This is a game of elders, we discover, and intrigue is their favorite weapon. Assamites are often the means, set on both sides to carry out tasks that only seem to be chaotic. Fatima al-Faqadi, of ancient blood, is one of the Assamite's deadliest. She is called on to bring death to Cardinal Moncada and his childe Lucita to answer the coming judgment of her clan. Other Assamites dot this story as well - Parmenides (the servant of Vykos, Anwar, Walter James. Assamites have a streak of independence, which has created a large number of antitribu - rebels who fight where they will.<br /><br />The story spins about Fatima and Lucita shedding bits of light on some of the unexplained mysteries of the paste six volumes, and spreading confusion elsewhere. The two are perfectly matched in deadliness, beauty, and determination. Their paths only cross a few times in the book, but the impact of their meetings will determine the future of the overall story arc.<br /><br />Fleming again lays his carefully crafted characters out beautifully against the light and shadow of the Masquerade. He has never been one to romanticism vampire life and will often disillusion those who were hoping for vampire romances. Love tends to turn out badly in the world of darkness, eternal life comes at the price of an utter loss of humanity, and altruism is a lost motivation. But like moths, us readers return to it time after time.	2004-12-17
420550:US	53082946	R7E8W26FTNJ6Q	1565042689	649202633	Clanbook: Malkavian, Revised Edition (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Whom The Gods Love They First Make Mad	This was the one book in the series that I found genuinely irritating. Insanity is the nature of the Malkavian beast. Some are random, some are mystical, some are downright rigid, but all have their minds someplace else.  If there is a clan that the player desperately needs a guide book for it is the Malkavians.<br /><br />Take a loot at the associated clan nover.  This book alternates between a narrative as told by a Malkavian that still has most of the cards in his deck, followed by trips into the mind of his companion Anatole, the prophet of Gehenna. The latter is the end times in which the oldest vampires - the Antediluvians - rise to destroy all their heirs.<br /><br />Anatole's parts are intentionally dense, full of references to events in the other volumes, fragmentary episodes that make for unsettling and often confusing reading. In the midst Anatole's meandering quest for enlightenment there are pieces of actual, straightforward narrative to bring us up to date on the activities of the Sabbat and Victoria Ash. So the book may be hard to read and lack a continuous plot, but if you want to follow the series you still have to read it.<br /><br />There are a few moments when I think that Wieck is playing an ironic prank at the expense of the followers of the series. And there are other points where I wonder if this isn't an experiment in bringing some complex literary techniques into play. Be warned, this is not a book that stands alone. Or a book that will work well if read out of order. The nightmare brought by the Eye of Hesha continues to grow, and Anatole is destined to be a part of it.	2004-12-17
420553:US	53082946	R2ZCNQMC8Q0I0F	1588468178	538492803	Nosferatu (Dark Ages, Clan Novel #1)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Welcome To The Crusade, A Vampire's View	The basis for this series is the idea that Constantinople was a city largely owned and run by vampires. Vampires far more focused on creating a 'civilization' than the modern clans are, i.e., the have a dream of their own. Religion plays an unexpectedly large part. It drives the decisions of Malachite, who was a bishop while alive, and an intensely worshipful Nosferatu in his undeath. The worship has been displaced, however onto Michael on of the rulers of the city, who is a true elder.<br /><br />But the city of the dream has come to naught. In 1204 the invasions of the crusades come to the walls of Constantinople, and Christian knights, Turks, and even pagan barbarians overrun the city. Malachite, entering the city to find Michael and try to save the dream must face the horror of invading kine and kindred come to kill and plunder. Malachite's quest for understanding is the sum of the story, as Fleming uses him to introduce the themes that will haunt this series.<br /><br />As a character, Malachite has some shortcoming. He is a 300 year old vampire in the service of one of the rulers of the city, and all he seems to be able to think of is finding someone who will set things right. That and worry on perpetually about the state of his scions. I would have preferred some stronger at the center of the story rather than someone who is always looking under a rock (or a tomb) for what to do. He also shares a common trait of Camarilla vampires - a tendency to mourn his state as a fallen creature.<br /><br />No doubt Fleming will make something more of Malachite before the series ends. The purpose of this book is to outline the focus of the series, and set a scene where mysticism, insanity, and betrayal are the great themes. And while the book starts very slowly, it eventually accomplishes exactly that as it picks up speed. The world is divided into those who will want to read this series no matter what (like me), and those who, if they read this, will go no further. Being a vampire never seems to be any fun anymore.er. Being a vampire never seems to be any fun anymore.  <br /> <br />	2004-12-17
420719:US	53082946	R2VVY616OMYXQL	1565048040	568660729	Clan Novel Setite (The Clan Novel Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Snakes and Vampires	Setites are an unexpected complication in the world of the Masquerade. While most vampires are Cainites (the children or followers of Cain), Setites are the followers of Set. The premise is that any being that draws energy from both the world of darkness and the world of light must follow certain rules. So a Setite still drinks blood and must avoid exposure to sunlight, but you can't kill one with a stake the way you can kill a Cainite. There are other clans that claim this kind of origin (Gangrel and Ravnos), but Setites take the prize for eeriness.<br /><br />Hesha Ruhadze is the perfect Setite - money, power, and a truly devious intelligence. He can be a perfect gentleman, lie with a straight face, and almost never makes a mistake. Behind the mask though is a creature whose thoughts wander far and wide from the mainstream vampire. On a perpetual quest for antiquities of his heritage his path crosses that of art preservationist Elizabeth Dimitrios. Hesha finds something of value deep within her and he draws her into his web. Even as his hunt for the eye of Hazimel intensifies.<br /><br />Elizabeth becomes Hesha's curator and gradually comes to understand that for all that Hesha never seems evil, the world around him is a dangerous one. She will soon find herself traveling through the dark world, a privileged spectator in a deadly war for power.<br /><br />Kathleen Ryan really breaks the clan novel mold with this book. We've had to wade through several volumes that are crowded with details and sometimes almost academic in style. Setite, however, even more so than Gangrel, is a character-based book with plenty of action and mystery. This is one of the best novels in the series, and can almost stand by itself. She has written another novel in the series (Ravnos) and I'm looking forward to it.	2004-12-17
420795:US	53082946	RBTWWO3HJD6HD	1565048059	627785002	Clan Novel Ventrue (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Setting Up The Middle Game	The Ventrue are the politicians of the Camarilla. They can be glib, polite, and socially conscious, by never forget that down deep it is power, and the glory that attends it that draws them to the flame. Many have a considerable talent for this and have become the primogens and princes of vampire establishments. They are not, characteristically, experimenters or iconoclasts. They are committed to the laws of the Camarilla and the increase of their personal power. They are stodgy - so much so that even Fleming, who is a traditionally oriented writer, can't resist some humor at their expense.<br /><br />Jan Pieterzoon is the novel's central character, come to Baltimore to help the Camarilla reeling form the attack of the Sabbat in Atlanta find a functional defense before US vampires fall into complete lawlessness. Powerful in his own right and scion of the Ventrue justicar Pieterzoon is best at keeping the panic within limits and keeping the Camarilla from dissolving.<br /><br />He is balanced by Victoria Ash, Toreador, who will continue to play a major part in these novels. She is a vampire who uses her own seductiveness to control at a subtler level than Pieterzoon, who is a 'bottom line' sort of vampire. And lurking in the background is Colchester, a Nosferatu, and the character who persistently steal the show. Flemings characters are usually strong, and Clan Venture is no exception.<br /><br />This is not a heavily plotted book. The focus is on the Camarilla's efforts to regroup after the Sabbat uprising and is more of a panarama of tidbits that move the larger picture along. Most of the action serves for character development and the setting of the themes to come, but there is nothing like a Camarilla turn around, and a great deal of breast beating by the losing side.	2004-12-17
424580:US	53082946	R10ET07J63MFZG	1565048016	128952636	Toreador (Clan)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	What's a Primogen between Enemies?	Here begins a 13 volume essay on the world of The Masquerade, the vampires who are its denizens, the intensity of its politics, and the fragility of its architecture. Each of the books take a narrow slice of the events leading up to and surrounding the Sabbat's plans to steal Atlanta from the claws of the Masquerade. If you don't know, the Masquerade ore the clans who are determined to keep vampires out of public sight and notice, and the Sabbat, who want to be able to run wild and treat humans as walking snack bags.<br /><br />We are introduced to two vampires of the Toreador, a clan best know for its focus on the artistic and sensual. Leopold is a struggling sculptor, and Victoria Ash is determined to rise to control of Atlanta. Both are struggling with their identity, but Leopold is trying to find out who he is, and Victoria's goal is to discover what she may become. When Victoria throws a party with her own surprises planned she discovers that the Sabbat has other plans entirely. Soon their primary goal is simple survival.<br /><br />This is a fan book, by which I mean that it will be most meaningful to those who are players of the associated game and know much of the details of the background against which the story takes place. If you come in cold you will find this book too heavily detailed and fragmentary. In fact, until the series settles down in later volumes, this element of confusion is the norm.<br /><br />Not that the story doesn't have juicy parts, but it is often more of a sourcebook than an action tale. In these tales much of what happens comes in tiny bites. If you are a fan of Masquerade's intricate gothic plots and unpredictable character behavior then this will suit you fine. There is material here for endless maneuvers and adventures. In no case, however, expect this to be a sex charged romance novel. The Masquerade was made for vampires, not their food.	2004-12-14
425643:US	53082946	R4S7K22Y0GI9N	1565048075	133862051	Clan Novel Lasombra *OP (Clan Novel Series Number 6)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pressing Shadows	Clan Lasombra are masters of the shadows.  Not just the sneaking around and hiding in them part, but the shaping and use of them as real, physical weapons.  A Lasombra adept can crush you without touching you.  Small wonder they are one of the most feared of the Sabbat clans and Cardinal Ambrosio Luis de Moncada, their leader, wields immense power.  This story is about two vampires of his making, and the political maneuvers in which they are enmeshed.<br /><br />Lucita is something of a prodigal daughter.  A 1000 years old herself, a legendary assassin in her own right, she maintains her independence from her maker as well as she can.  As such, Lucita willingly accepts a contract to kill one of the Sabbat bishops leading the Sabbat forces in the US, which puts her at odds with Moncada.  The good bishop's reaction is to send in another of his scions, the Sabbat templar Talley, one of the protectors of the bishops, with instructions to stop the assassination but avoid harm to Lucitia.  This is a nearly impossible assignment in a society where assassination is one of the most common ways to express admiration.  But both Lucita and Talley are perfect hunters, so the outcome will remain in doubt right until the end.<br /><br />Of this author Richard Lansky spins a plot that is another insight into the politics of treachery that mark vampire society.  No one knows which bishop (of Polonia, Borges, and Vykos) is the intended victim, or who ordered the slaying.  Talley has no idea from which direction Lucita will strike.  And protecting a group of egotistical bishops is more like herding cats than standing guard duty.<br /><br />Lasombra reads more like a true novel than some of the other effort in that series.  That, several well-developed characters, and a host of fine details, make this an enjoyable effort by an author who is completely new to me.  Hopefully we will see more of Dansky as the world of darkness continues to expand.	2004-12-13
429835:US	53082946	RQ81CHMIUD0H7	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	3	1	1	N	N	For Want of a Nail	I guess it is now my turn to venture into the Cornwell/Scarpetta wars. I started with this series early on, when the writing was more about the crime and the detection. Like many, as Cornwell shifted the focus to what was wrong with her characters instead of forensic investigation I became disenchanted. Now I will read on of the books when it reaches paperback and I don't have something better to read. At least she never opted to turn the series into oversexed romance novels, and for that I am grateful.<br /><br />A can report that Blow Fly really is better than some of Cornwell's previous work. The anguish of the broken and the bent is not longer the primary focus, and there is real villainy as Kate and the members of The Last Precinct come face-to-face again with the darkness of Jean-Paul Chandonne, his brother Jay Talley, and the willing accomplice, Bev Kiffen. From prison, Jean-Paul reaches out like a spider to bring Kay Scarpetta within his grasp, while Jay and Bev hid in the Baton Rouge swamps, hunting new victims.<br /><br />One of the problems with the story is that, it simply isn't a mystery story several possible mysteries appear, but none are ever more than an excuse to move the plot forward, dropped lamely when they serve their purposes. While we aren't plunged into anguish are we were in 'The Last Precinct,' we still are confronted by a cast of broken and damaged characters who seem to want to tread the lines of Greek tragedy. The result seems to be people flying about the world and the US solely for the purpose of making themselves and others feel bad.<br /><br />This time Cornwell dances around the issue of whether the forces of law are a moral improvement over the forces of evil. She leaves it clear in our minds that in Scarpetta's world, evil is only a matter of degree, and only the victims can be innocent. This is depressing on a good day, and in these novels good days are hard to come by.<br /><br />Cornwell still insists on writing well, so it is impossible to condemn her completely. Blow Fly, for all its many faults at least tries to be a readable novel. But it is too passive for an action story, too haphazard for a mystery story, and ends too meekly to be a serious novel. Like one of the characters, it is nobody's child, condemned to injure itself to prove its existence.ll, so it is impossible to condemn her completely. Blow Fly, for all its many faults at least tries to be a readable novel. But it is too passive for an action story, too haphazard for a mystery story, and ends too meekly to be a serious novel. Like one of the characters, it is nobody's child, condemned to injure itself to prove its existence.	2004-12-09
430215:US	53082946	R2UPWSP3ENZ78A	156219917X	76228049	Urotsukidoji - Book 1: Legend of the Overfiend	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Everything to Excess	This is the start of the manga series, which became better known as a film by the same name. For those of us who are used to thinking of manga as a media for the young, where the sexuality is mostly represented by over-abundant prettiness and thinly disguised innuendo, Urotsukidoji is quite a shock. To call it lurid and violent is an understatement. It serves the purpose of creating a deep sense of moral horror, but leaves unanswered the question of whether or not Toshio Maeda's setting is gratuitous or necessary to support his apocalyptic vision of damnation and tortured redemption.<br /><br />The story, simply enough, is about the prophesied coming of the Choujin, or Overfiend. It is foretold that this being will unite the three worlds of the humans (ninjinkai), demons (makai), and the half-human animal spirits (juujinkai). This is support to usher in a period of great peace and prosperity. But, as the story develops, it becomes graphically clear that one demon's peace may very will not have the same meaning to a human. What actually seems to develop is a apocalyptic vision of a world torn between sexual perversion and physical destruction - in equal amounts.<br /><br />The vision is spectacular at the same time it is deeply repulsive. The characters, who are all portrayed as both victims and perpetrators, fail at anything resembling mutual affection. Lust, not love, is the key to the entry in this not-very-brave new world. Well drawn and written, the impact is intentionally confusing and overwhelming. As humans, our vision is too limited to integrate the horror we see with and grander vision.<br /><br />I'm not sure if the series started out as hentai (Japanese graphic pornography) and then developed an artistic life of its own, or whether Maeda simply used the hentai overlay to tell what he felt is an important fable. That is a decision each reader will have to make if they choose to follow this challenging tale.	2004-12-08
430764:US	53082946	R16H802QJ6EZMO	1565048024	436595742	Clan Novel: Tzimisce (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Molders of Flesh	While the Sabbat isn't noted for pleasantness, the Tzimisce are one of the grimmer clans.  Specialists in the modification of flesh, they are feared for their whimsical cruelty and delight is creating pain and horror that is condemned to live changed forever (or until the next whim).  Getting in a disagreement with a Tzimisce is an existence-limiting move.  Sascha Vykos is from the hard old line of the European vampires and has been sent to the Sabbat council meetings about the future of Atlanta as the representative of Cardinal Moncada whose ambitions are great.  Her presence is an offence to the New World Sabbat members, and all are quickly embroiled in the dense politics of the vampire world.<br /><br />While Sascha gets her share of this novel, the story is really about the wider conflict, giving us our first glimpse of the world of the Sabbat.  It is a place where even the faint respect for rules that mark the vampires of The Masquerade is completely missing.  Fear and subterfuge are the means for power.  Sometimes it is subtle and sometimes sudden but almost always cruel.  Vykos and her Tzimisce have come to pursue a master agenda and both Sabbat and Camarilla have cause to worry.<br /><br />The focus shifts from Sabbat to Camarilla, as what is to become a complete turnabout in New World vampire politics unfolds.  Tzimisce, LaSombra, Settite and even Assamite assassins take their parts.  Even Victoria Ash enters, obviously intended to be a key character.<br /><br />The detailing is drawn fine, and you get a real flavor of what it feels like to be a vampire within the confines of the game.  Eric Griffin is a more of an action writer than others in this series, and the story moves along at a good clip, replete with ghoulish moments.  If you like horror, politics, and exquisite torment then enter the darkness here.	2004-12-08
430940:US	53082946	R351O73KGPUFQ5	0843950463	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Midnight at the Donut Shop of the Gods	It's hard to pinpoint this novel. Of course, I bought it because it was a horror story by an author whom I have wanted to try. I do like horror in many of its shades. And, to be honest, there are at least 50 pages that can actually be called horror. But most of the book is the story of Edward Logan who seems to have opted for life as a victim when his college girlfriend (Holly) up and leaves him for a camp counselor.<br /><br />Edward's return to ascetic life lasts about a week. One late night he decides to take a long walk for donuts, and his ex-girlfriend's sorority sister (Eileen) decides to rescue him, and he becomes spellbound by a mysterious young woman (Casey) who likes to wander into strange houses and often plays truth or dare with the denizens of the night. There are several other beautiful ladies dotting the novel's story line, and Edward's persistent explanation for his complete lack of loyalty is to blame whatever significant she (usually Holly) isn't present at the moment of his temptation.<br /><br />Most of the novel takes place in night rambles in which Edward finds a serial killer, a mad bicycling granny, a pair of jeep riding sisters, and a clan of cannibal trolls who seem to work as the town's cleanup squad. Edward has a knack of going where no sane college junior should ever go and he seems as addicted to risk as is young Casey. Nobody in this story is really quite sane, and no one (except the serial killer) realizes how crazy they really are.<br /><br />So this is less a horror story than it is a 'spooky' story. Since everything between the various touchy/feely episodes is, well, weird. Laymon writes quite well, and this is far from the first time I've picked up a horror story to discover that the atmosphere is dark, but not ghoulish. Perhaps the horror lies in the was Edward relinquishes all responsibility for his decisions, in a town where karma seems to be instant. Laymon reminds me of Tom Piccirilli, who also has a knack for writing somewhere to the left of mainstream horror, and whom I have also come to enjoy.g somewhere to the left of mainstream horror, and whom I have also come to enjoy.	2004-12-08
435300:US	53082946	R2NR2EHCTJR48R	0441012159	898196045	The Nimble Man: The Menagerie #1	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Never Meddle In The Wizards Of Affairs	Chris Golden has become a 'presence' on the horror scene. He has been a prolific writer of stories for the Buffy and Angel series, as well as having many successful efforts of his own. Tom Sniegoski is best known for his comic books work, where he has frequently collaborated with Golden. Now they have joined together to write the first volume a new series, The Menagerie: The Nimble Man.<br /><br />The basic premise isn't particularly original - wizard and friends join up to save the world books have been around since Lord of The Rings. But the group that make up what is to become The Menagerie are unique in every way. Something one should expect from authors who have the temerity to make Arthur Conan Doyle the magic worker. Then there's Eve, whose second husband made her a vampire (after she proved that gardening wasn't her strong point.<br /><br />Then there is Clay, the world's oldest shape changer, Len Graves, adventurer and ghost, Squire, the hobgoblin chauffer, Ceridwin, a princess of Faerie and Doyle's one time lover. And last, but not least, is Danny, a demon in the offing with a worried mother. All of these unite when Doyle's attempts to prevent Lorenzo Sanguedolce (Sweetblood) from being extracted from a living tomb backfire, and a deranged Queen of the Fay sets about trying to end the world.<br /><br />What makes the book is the reality the writers bring to the characters. These aren't cut-and-paste heroes speaking overblown prose, but people who, if you didn't know who they were would seem like ordinary folks with both good points and issues. Or as ordinary as a 16 year old with horns is ever likely to be.<br /><br />As much as I like him, Chris Golden is an erratic writer, who often falls short of his full potential. Teaming with Sniegoski seems to have done the trick, though, and The Nimble Man is that great rarity, an intelligent action story rich in both character and context. I was much delighted, and am looking forward to the next volume..	2004-12-04
455366:US	53082946	RJ68OJWLUDIW6	0451459873	144981880	Blood Rites (The Dresden Files, Book 6)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Keeping It in the Family	I'm not sure that it is technically accurate to label this latest stanza in the 'Dresden File' series a pleasant surprise, since all of the books have been enjoyable reading.  But author Jim Butcher has managed to take a series that was showing signs of being pleasantly predictable and up the level just a bit.  Much of this has been accomplished by developing Harry Dresden into something more than a Chicago wizard with an overly developed sense of responsibility (and possible an overactive thyroid).  He has developed more of the sense of self-awareness I would expect from a professional wizard, although I would say that Harry's judgment is still has a bit of adolescent about it.<br /><br />Another part of this growth stems from the fleshing out of the basic Dresden plot, which is Harry in trouble with the wizard's White Council and hunted by the various vampire courts.  That hasn't changed much.  This time Harry is trying to put a stop to a new Black Court effort to end his life while keeping a deadly evil eye curse from bankrupting a porno film startup company.  The latter effort puts Harry at odds with the head of the Vampire's White Court.  We get to experience both the delights of the film stage and the wild action of a raid on a Black Court lair.<br /><br />Butcher makes this come alive by filling in a lot of the blanks about his vampire's society and politics, while stepping up the heat on Harry's relationship with Lt. Karrin Murphy, the head of Special Investigation.  Throw in the development of several other collateral characters and you have an action story with interesting characters.  This works well, because Butcher seems to know when to back off from the melodramatic and let people behave like people (or vampires) in a serious conflict..<br /><br />Of course, the usual spookiness and ritual magic are there as always.  Magic works in Butcher's alternate reality, and it sometimes works with a vengeance.  The author sometimes takes a moment to explain how such things are supposed to work, but wisely, he avoids creating a formal system that would limit story development.  Instead he blends magic, supernatural, and the occult as needed to get the right effect.  I'm not a purist, and Butcher manages to avoid glaring self-contradiction.  Keep in mind that this genre is beginning to get crowded with Harry Dresden's and Anita Blake's.  Butcher's stories maintain a distinct identity and style that is beginning to be imitated, which is the best recommendation of all.n how such things are supposed to work, but wisely, he avoids creating a formal system that would limit story development.  Instead he blends magic, supernatural, and the occult as needed to get the right effect.  I'm not a purist, and Butcher manages to avoid glaring self-contradiction.  Keep in mind that this genre is beginning to get crowded with Harry Dresden's and Anita Blake's.  Butcher's stories maintain a distinct identity and style that is beginning to be imitated, which is the best recommendation of all. <br />	2004-11-15
459863:US	53082946	R3L4F8BAQ3T0IJ	1561586846	109084711	Designing Furniture: The New Best of Fine Woodworking	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Steps to Fine Wood Work	As I've mentioned before the good thing about the 'Best of Fine Woodworking' series is that the articles are almost consistently good. The authors are drawn from the best of today's practitioners and teachers of woodworking, the writing carefully crafted for depth and clarity, and the quality of illustration is outstanding. In fact the only complaint I have ever had is that articles are often presented in a disorganized fashion, which can be frustrating for the reader with some specific information need in mind.<br /><br />This time I can't even complain about that. Instead the articles are divided up into sections on 'Finding Design Inspiration', 'Developing Designs and Organizing Projects', 'Construction by Design', 'Designing Furniture', and 'Designing for Form and Function.' Admittedly, these are not perfectly clear distinctions, but as you look through the volume you can get a feel for why the distinctions have been made.<br /><br />The design application articles are really the meat of the book. Articles like 'Joining Legs to Aprons' and 'Side Board Strategies,' are breathtaking and their detail. Be warned that Fine Woodworking doesn't believe in cutting corners. The joinery is both traditional and painstaking and nobody balks at a complicated task. But whether you are reading for inspiration or for good practical guidance, you will fine much of that here.	2004-11-11
463525:US	53082946	R3EUPB2O791W6V	1561581909	685572426	More Finishes and Finishing Techniques (Best of Fine Woodworking)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Potent Miscellany	It is a suspicion of mine, probably unfounded, that there are more books about finishing wood than there are possible ways to finish wood.  My experience is that most people buy these books not because they want to find a new way of doing things, but because they want to find THE way of finishing wood.  Once we find something that works we are likely to apply to every surface we can.  'More Finishes and Finishing Techniques' is intended for those who really want a larger arsenal when confronting a recalcitrant wood surface.<br /><br />This is a set of articles drawn from the pages of 'Fine Woodworking,' a magazine noted for deep dives into woodworking technique and are.  As expected, these are well written and illustrated efforts that cover a wide spread of subjects.  This is both an advantage and a disadvantage, as the order of articles is only one step removed from haphazard.<br /><br />You will find 5 articles on spray finishing (with an article on finish removal right in the midst of them).  Another large group cover painting, staining, and toning.  The rest focus on the tradition world of lacquer and shellac - sealing, padding, and rubbing out (or in).  Most are written for people who have at least tried and failed, rather than complete beginners.  Some of the articles are quite esoteric, or address the use of equipment that are more the domain of the dedicated woodworker than something to which a week-end warrior would have access.  Of course, any good woodworking book will contain things to dream about as well as things to do.<br /><br />I've noticed that Taunton has recently brought out a finishing book in their 'Complete' series, which you may want to check before looking into this book, or its predecessor.  I've found that series tends to be well grounded and orderly.  But if it's fine tuning that you are looking for, then 'More Finishes...' may be just perfect for your purposes.	2004-11-08
466937:US	53082946	R3C5H0IQ42MYQE	068986017X	304474483	Heat  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel crossover)	Books	4	2	5	N	Y	Attack Of The Giant Museum Displays	Unlike most of Nancy Holder's work, Heat starts off a bit wobbly, probably to the complicated scene setting needed to provide a backdrop for a story that rambles through Sunnydale, Los Angeles, and Hell, with various side trips on the way.  In addition, the necessities of writing a late season Buffy/Angel crossover demand a lot of juggling of details and Holder lets a few inconsistencies slip.  But, putting aside my own compulsive perfectionism, the story finally settles in and becomes a rather intricately developed tale of love, cross and double-cross, with an apocalypse or two thrown in for good measure.<br /><br />The story centers on three 'possessors,' creatures who survive through time by changing to new human hosts as the previous one is burnt out.  The three are Qin, once China's most fabled emperor, his primary wife Xian, and their court sorcerer Fai-Lok.  Qin in turn is being manipulated to open the earthly plain to Lir, one of Hell's greatest demons, currently frozen like an ice cube.  But while Qin tries to take over the universe, Fai-Lok is busy trying to take over Xian.  And taking over the universe while he is at it.  Just to keep things complicated Jhiera a beautiful (and treacherous) demoness joins the fray with no one quite sure who she is working for.  And don't forget Wolfram & Hart.  And I shouldn't leave out a visitor from Pylea.  Clearly Buffy and Angel were going to have one giant bad hair day.<br /><br />Qin sets up in an underground temple complete with hordes of Chinese gang members.  The plan includes unleashing various exhibits of terracotta Chinese soldiers from Qin's original burial.  These have been strategically deposited around the world in important places like Frankfurt, Cleveland, Tokyo, Paris, and, er... Sunnydale [go figure].  If the soldiers march they will cause incredible destruction, while Qin works to have Jhiera melt Lir out of the ice.  Fai-Lok helps on one hand while he has his own gangs in the background trying to grab all the gusto there is.  Buffy and Angel and their many friends desperately try to figure out what is going on in time to find a way to prevent it.  The result really does resemble the fire drill like antics of many Hong Kong martial arts films.<br /><br />The scale of the story is surprising, and Holder managed to put together a novel which is fun to read despite some BuffyTrivia mistakes.  Everything progresses to yet another apocalyptic extravaganza. (Sometimes I think that Sunnydale owns the 'most often nearly flattened' award for the planet Earth)  Lots of conflicted emotions make the characters more than just kung-fu puppets as well.  Definitely a book to read if you love everything Buffy.grab all the gusto there is.  Buffy and Angel and their many friends desperately try to figure out what is going on in time to find a way to prevent it.  The result really does resemble the fire drill like antics of many Hong Kong martial arts films. <br /> <br />The scale of the story is surprising, and Holder managed to put together a novel which is fun to read despite some BuffyTrivia mistakes.  Everything progresses to yet another apocalyptic extravaganza. (Sometimes I think that Sunnydale owns the 'most often nearly flattened' award for the planet Earth)  Lots of conflicted emotions make the characters more than just kung-fu puppets as well.  Definitely a book to read if you love everything Buffy.	2004-11-04
473832:US	53082946	RZQGT43R80GEE	0312277334	743152240	The Tumbler (Gabriel Du Pre Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Up above the world you fly...	It is easy to get accustomed to Peter Bowen's mysteries starring Gabriel Du Pre.  In a sense, the Metis Indian is someone we all want to be.  Smart, deeply in tough with his community and its environs, a man with strong relationships, good friend, and a wry, penetrating wit.  Equally at home with the mysticism of medicine men and FBI agents.  And very determined to see his way to the truth.<br /><br />The truth is what is most elusive in The Tumbler.  Du Pre and Benetsee (the ageless medicine man) have discovered some important Lewis & Clark artifacts (or have they?) and the government is suing to get them, people are dropping money in an effort to buy than, and someone seems perfectly willing to murder to get their hands on them.  In the midst of this Julie, the niece of Bart Fascelli (Du Pre's rich friend) shows up in Toussaint to work on her own issues.  All this makes for a rich, multi-layered stew of motives and priorities.<br /><br />In retrospect, the story is even more of a tapestry than Bowen's previous efforts.  Thieves, murderers, the law, sorcerers and gymnasts are the threads, and Du Pre, with the help of his companion Madelaine and the mysterious Benetsee must find where the knot is and untie it before the worst happens.  Bowen's stories are noted for luring you in with light banter and intriguing characters only to his you firmly over the head at the end. And The Tumbler is no exception.  Be prepared.<br /><br />One thing I had not realized is that Peter Bowen is a private person.  I was curious about why this particular title was chosen.  Young Julie and her boyfriend are gymnasts, which is part of it, but my intuition tells me that there is more.  Something like the sacred clowns of the Navaho.  After scouring the web I can report that other than book reviews and short bios, Peter Bowen has a very light network footprint for this day and age.  Yet another mystery in a book that asks more questions than it answers.  In many ways this is the most thoughtful and, perhaps, the best written of the Du Pre stories.  Enjoy.t thoughtful and, perhaps, the best written of the Du Pre stories.  Enjoy. <br />	2004-10-29
478314:US	53082946	RTOYKQ7QJIF9L	1561584029	367892180	The Complete Illustrated Guide to Furniture & Cabinet Construction	Books	5	70	71	N	N	Excellent Work	This is yet another excellent volume in Taunton's 'Complete Illustrated' woodworking series.  Focused on (but not really limited to) furniture and cabinet construction, the book takes the reader through 1) Tools and Materials, 2) Box and Case Construction, 3) Doors, 4) Bases, Feet, and Stands, 5) Frame Construction, and wraps up with 6) Tabletops and Work Surfaces.  This is an ambitious undertaking under any circumstances, but Andy Rae finds an approach that is both broad in coverage and tightly organized.<br /><br />After a few initial wobbles as the book gets underway, the reader will grasp the overall approach and discover that there seems to be an endless supply of techniques and idea one can draw on.  Whatever your level of building there is good material - this is one of those efforts that can help you make a breakthrough in quality of work.<br /><br />Unlike many how-to books this series stays away from getting bogged down in projects.  This allows the writer to move around and offer a lot of alternatives rather than get bogged down in one way to do things.  It doesn't hurt to have a project in mind when reading the book, but be sure that it will change several times as you read and absorb the ideas.<br /><br />I have a buffet table that owes a great deal to Andy Rae's ability to communicate both technique and design.  Thus the book paid for itself in one fell swoop.  Happy woodworking!	2004-10-25
479852:US	53082946	RSJHD3TESXWB5	0312855818	851858247	Sethra Lavode (The Viscount of Adrilankha)	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	The Last Defense of the Orb	One of the few problems a reader might perceive with this epic of the re-establishment of the Dragaeran Empire is that Brust's alter-ego, Sir Paarfi of Roundwood, writes in a most circumlocutory style.  For people who like their prose swift and to the point, this may be an irritant.  For me, addicted to work that stretches the frame of grammer and language the result is often infectious.  No surprise that, after reading a few chapters at lunch, the memos I write at work become three times longer and never quite get to the point.  Of course, this is one of the most likeable things about the series as well, if you like playing with language, and I do.<br /><br />This volume brings to a head the various threads that began in Paths of the Dead, when Zerika, as the last Phoenix received the Orb back from the Gods and went about rebuilding the empire that had collapse as the result of Adron's disaster.  The first complication was that someone else (Kava) was also intent on becoming emperor, and a grand conflict was the inevitable result.  Now Zerika, with the aid of a host of intriguing and quirky characters, must prepare for the last confrontation with Kava before the walls of Adrilankha.<br /><br />Sethra Lavode, warlord, vampire, and enchantress is the brains behind Zerika's hopes, but others, such as Khaavran, the captain of the guard, and his son Piro (who has chosen to make his living as a highwayman), sparkle throughout the narrative.  Brust has the knack of creating characters who have the charm of creativity, even when they are doing their best to be despicable.<br /><br />Everyone who has been a fan of Brust knows how this book will turn out, since it is the prequel to many of his novels, thus the voyage is more important than the conclusion.  Unlike many writers, Burst focuses on the interaction of the players, rather than ad infinitum detail or excesses of action.  Most of this takes place in a wry style of dialogue that is difficult to describe.<br /><br />However, don't be misled into thinking that there is a lack if activity here.  After all, we have highwaymen, court politics, marching armies, gods, various magicks, and a whopping big battle at the end.  Even a bit of romance when the characters think no one else is looking.  Be warned that this is not a volume to start out with.  You are best off starting with The Phoenix Guards and working forward.king that there is a lack if activity here.  After all, we have highwaymen, court politics, marching armies, gods, various magicks, and a whopping big battle at the end.  Even a bit of romance when the characters think no one else is looking.  Be warned that this is not a volume to start out with.  You are best off starting with The Phoenix Guards and working forward.	2004-10-24
482158:US	53082946	RZVW6GJJ7D0OD	0515136816	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Once More Into The Breach	As much as I like the way Laurell Hamilton writes I've started to avoid reading her work.  I'm not a prude, but I don't think scenes that are steamier than what could be found in the 'dirty books' section of the drug store (that's where you snuck off to when I was 13) add tons to the plot, or to the character development.  A little is good, but a lot just becomes tedious.  With Cerulean Sins out in paperback I decided it was time to test the water again.<br /><br />For 135 pages I thought I was in luck.  Hamilton builds a story line about the unexpected visit of a group of European vampires who are the emissaries of Belle Morte, one of the oldest vampires on the grand council and maker of both Asher and Jean Claude.  There's a lot of \\"who gets to torture who\\" as the intricate politics and backstabbing of vampire society are laid bare (bad joke!) for the reader.  But Musette and her cohorts are at least interesting as they try to work Belle Morte's revenge on her wayward children.<br /><br />The other subplot is a series of murders that leave people looking like hamburger patties.  Anita's issues with Dolph, the head of the preternatural investigatory team, come to a head as his hatred of occult creatures boils over.  This is a bit of a shame, since Dolph and Zerbrowski, another detective, add what little human dialogue there is in recent volumes in this series.<br /><br />This brings us to page 135, where we discover that the emotional triangle between Jean-Claude, Asher, and Anita (I'm not counting Anita's other bed partners) is going to become physical, and Anita's frequent state of arousal is the basis for a large part of the plot.  One has to wonder what the next volume will have to offer in the way of erotic violence, since Hamilton seems compelled to escalate the titillation.<br /><br />Between the bedroom theatrics, there is actually a good book here.  Or rather, good as I measure good - complex plot, rising suspense, strong characters, etc.  In a way it recalls some of the earlier Anita Blake books where the necromancer did less romancing and more raising of the dead.  Cerulean Sins really is better balanced than some recent efforts so, perhaps, this signals that Hamilton hasn't given up writing horror stories.it recalls some of the earlier Anita Blake books where the necromancer did less romancing and more raising of the dead.  Cerulean Sins really is better balanced than some recent efforts so, perhaps, this signals that Hamilton hasn't given up writing horror stories.	2004-10-21
484150:US	53082946	R25Z27OWC093IR	0441011594	887702562	Iron Sunrise (Singularity)	Books	5	56	61	N	Y	Dancing On The Event Horizon	The first volume in this series - Singularity Sky - read a bit unevenly, because Stross had a lot of explaining to do to get the reader in synch with his reality.  After all, a possible future with has mankind spread throughout the galaxy not by his own ingenuity but by an irate being called the Eschaton, which was someone else's god, but took exception to the way we were learning how to abuse time travel in the process of learning how to exceed the speed of light.  Since the Eschaton was not about to let itself be erased by the modification of history it seized the moment and moved nine tenths of the Earth elsewhere.<br /><br />Since space travel is time travel, the far flung groups moved not just huge distances, but large amounts of time as well.  Thus, just as the Earth was recovering from the mass exodus, humans from distant worlds made it back to the solar system, and the universe started to get smaller again.  And stranger.  There was a lot to explain, and Charles Stross does like to expound on the 'science' of his works.<br /><br />With that work behind him, the stage is set for this volume, which is a lot more space opera and a lot less explanation.  Once again a series of events points to an attack on the Eschaton, and Rachel Mansour and her husband Martin are recalled from their day jobs to investigate the destruction of one world and the immanent obliteration of another.<br /><br />The the real star of the book is Wednesday Shadowmist, who first saw her entire world destroyed by an intentional supernova, and then her saw her family destroyed by agents from the ReMastered, a dangerous and effective cult intent on building an empire.  Wednesday is erratically aided by an invisible friend - Herman, whom readers may remember from Singularity Sky, and Frank the Nose, a warblogger with his own issues with the ReMastered.  If this is beginning to sound complicated, trust me, it gets worse.  Wait until you get to meet the ReMastered.<br /><br />This book is an excellent example of Stross's writing skill, moving forward with a steadily increasing pace.  Stross thrives on detail, and can bring unnerving vista into perfect focus.  He has a light touch with an ironic sense of humor.  Characterization is equally deep, with the net result that the reader jogs along with considerable delight.  I found this a strong entry, perhaps the best of his novels so far.is an excellent example of Stross's writing skill, moving forward with a steadily increasing pace.  Stross thrives on detail, and can bring unnerving vista into perfect focus.  He has a light touch with an ironic sense of humor.  Characterization is equally deep, with the net result that the reader jogs along with considerable delight.  I found this a strong entry, perhaps the best of his novels so far.	2004-10-20
488978:US	53082946	RO27WCYREQSUZ	0743233476	695751496	Monday Mourning: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Murder In A Thin Crust	Bare Bones, Kathy Reichs previous novel shows some signs of becoming too personally involved with Temperance Brennan's personal life to the exclusion of the real story.  And the start of Monday Mourning did little to dispel this.  Tempe is back in Montreal for a stint as their forensic anthropologist seemingly completely wired.  Her relationship with Detective Andrew Ryan is going through a rough spot (which is mostly in her head), and the discovery of three skeletons in the cellar of a pizza parlor forces her to work with one of her least favorite detectives, Luc Claudel.  And her best friend shows up on the verge of divorce.  Nothing is going right.<br /><br />Claudel and Tempe square off over the age of the remains.  He wants to believe that they are ancient history, but Tempe has a hunch that they are more recent.  When an unknown caller reveals that something had been going on in the building Tempe becomes fixated on finding the truth.  Be prepared for a wave of archeological science as Tempe not only proves the age of the bones, but manages to pinpoint where they had lived.  And close inspection of the remains reveals other horrific possibilities.<br /><br />As Tempe's personal crises build so does the tention of the case.  Something horrible lies behind the slim evidence, and it has never gone to sleep.  Now threatened, a noose begins to tighten about Tempe's own neck.  What awaits is subtle and merciless, and Tempe will find herself faced with true darkness even as she tries to resolve a 20 year old wrong.  A whirl of tense action spins its way to a gripping ending.<br /><br />For my tastes, there is a bit too much Tempe in this story.  For a mature woman with a great deal of responsibility, she manages to turn herself into a nervous wreck over Andrew Ryan.  There are early moments in the book that made me thing that Reichs was determined to become just another Pat Cornwell clone, and I despaired that the forensic detective genre had gone to romances every one.<br /><br />But Reichs somehow pulls back from the precipice and gets down to the business of writing a strong and compelling thriller.  I found the core mystery one that offered a sufficient number of subtle clues and red herrings to keep the reader guessing, while the plot marches on at great tempo.  Reichs will remain on my 'buy in hardcover' list.w pulls back from the precipice and gets down to the business of writing a strong and compelling thriller.  I found the core mystery one that offered a sufficient number of subtle clues and red herrings to keep the reader guessing, while the plot marches on at great tempo.  Reichs will remain on my 'buy in hardcover' list.	2004-10-15
492968:US	53082946	R253HXLXJQPCOK	0312262523	918818620	Badlands: A Montana Mystery Featuring Gabriel Du Pre	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Benetsee Sang	When a series closes in on a dozen volumes, the challenge to the author is to keep his characters believable and avoid repetitive formulas.  In other words the author must find new ways of being creative while each new book adds more constraints to the overall story.  Truth be told, I know of no author who manages this with complete ease.  Thus many of the contributing factors of Badlands will be familiar to Peter Bowen's more loyal readers, while newcomers will find the story completely original.<br /><br />Thus one can predict that Gabriel Du Pre, Metis Indian and frequent agent of a higher justice will be lectured by his mate Madelaine, manipulated by Benetsee the Shaman, and stubbornly determined to try his own way first.  He and his own are the truest natives of northern Montana, living at peace with the other long term residents of Toussaint and jealously guarding the inner nature of a lifestyle that still reflects the wilderness about them.<br /><br />When The Host of Yahweh, a yuppie religious cult, mysteriously descends on Toussaint and proceeds to build a closed community at a local ranch, this gets a lot of attention.  Especially when they show signs of killing of the local wild horse herd as pests.  Benetsee and Du Pre step in, and soon the violence escalates.  The FBI believes that the Host is implicated in the simultaneous killing of 7 ex-members, Du Pre is enlisted and an investigation that is more like a small war ensues.<br /><br />There really isn't a mystery here other than how Du Pre will manage to overcome the Host, but there is a lot of Bowen's warm respect for the Metis Indians.  He captures beautifully the strange English dialect that is part fractured French grammar, part salty word selection, and part sheer attitude.  Du Pre is surrounded by characters that Bowen generally keeps entertaining us, even if they are not always using fresh material.  Benetsee steals the book this time with his own magical mystery tour.  As Bowen writes, \\"Him, he will make his joke.  Always does.  Us, we get to be the punch lines.\\"<br /><br />I would advise starting earlier than this volume in the series, not because it can't stand on its own, but because of the amount the previous volumes contribute to the context.ways does.  Us, we get to be the punch lines.\\"    I would advise starting earlier than this volume in the series, not because it can't stand on its own, but because of the amount the previous volumes contribute to the context.	2004-10-12
498753:US	53082946	R5HBNRCMRFD9S	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Caveat Academia	It is unfortunate that the hype with which the publisher surrounded this book was so dedicated to portraying it as the next Da Vinci Code.  Because, while it certainly contains elements of Dan Brown's best seller, The Rule of Four has much more depth.  The real story, the book within the book, is something else entirely.  It is a tale of the variations of friendship that can exist between four Princeton roommates, as they pass through one of the great doors of life, that one which guards youth from the harsher realities of life.<br /><br />Tom Sullivan, the narrator, and Paul Harris, a brilliant student caught up in the intricacies of an obscure Renaissance text and the mysteries that revolve around it are the main players.  But their companions Charlie and Gil, as well as Tom's girlfriend Katie also play strong roles in what starts out as a almost a comedic depiction of Princeton undergraduate life.  The story quickly develops on more levels than the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, an allegorical story which in some ways the Rule of Four recapitulates.<br /><br />The first subplot is the relationship between Tom and Paul, which is bound inextricably in their almost addictive fixation on the manuscript.  Within it are layer after layer of puzzles and challenges.  Tom is torn between the Hypnerotomachia and his love for Katie, setting up the second subplot.  And the final subplot is the academic political storm that surrounds the book, which carries within it the seeds of anger and disaster.  Other themes abound - sacrifice, coming of age, redemption - enough to make this one of the most complex books I expect to read this year.  All disguised as a metaphysical thriller.<br /><br />For a first novel, written collaboratively, holding what often approaches William James 'blooming, buzzing mass of confusion' under tight control, this is an extraordinary effort.  Of course, James was a Harvard graduate, and in this case Princeton has the trump cards.  I found the story completely satisfying, as mystery, drama and magical journey.  And it filled me with nostalgia for my own years abiding in the academic world, something I miss dearly.stery, drama and magical journey.  And it filled me with nostalgia for my own years abiding in the academic world, something I miss dearly.	2004-10-06
507750:US	53082946	R3S2OK95L1JP71	0689869541	44895406	Wicked Willow III: Broken Sunrise (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	6	10	N	Y	Damaged Goods	This has been a hither and thither series.  Based on the interesting premise that, rather than go into a near terminal depression after Tara's death, Willow decides to turn to the dark side to resurrect her dead lover.  That this is impossible is besides the point, Willow is determined, and will stop at nothing - Neither Buffy, nor Giles, nor all the hauntings of Tara can stay her from the course.  This is a new, daring and, to be honest, extremely understandable Willow.  One whom, until this volume, was still a sympathetic character.<br /><br />But now Giles has managed to imprison Tara.  When she finds this out Willow sets about a uniquely horrible revenge as one by one she feeds her ex-friends to a Gnarl, who likes to eat his meals slowly while alive.  In the process of this Navarro achieves what no Buffy writer has every accomplished before - a genuine horror story.  Unfortunately, in the process, the author throws away an opportunity to say something unique in the Buffy framework  Instead we wind up with a grim story in which no character shines, one that proceeds inexorably to an embarrassingly trite ending.<br /><br />On Navarro's website she pointedly fixed the blame for the faults of this book on her publishers.  Admittedly, the Buffy annals are more tightly controlled than almost any other series, but regardless of whose fault it is, Broken Sunrise is a poor way to end the Wicked Willow series.  The writing is stilted, and the characters...  Well, Anya makes a poor showing, Buffy is permanently perplexed, and Giles makes one terrible mistake after another.  Tara, by the way, makes a very substandard ghost.<br /><br />The strange thing is that Yvonne Navarro is one of the better writers to grace the Buffyverse.  To have her suddenly turn out a series that is underwritten for an adult series and a bit to grim for the yound adult crowd is more than disappointing.  If it was 20th Century Fox who set the rules, Navarro would have been better off to decline the offer.  Or to write what she is really capable of and devil take the hindmost.she is really capable of and devil take the hindmost.	2004-09-28
509088:US	53082946	RGZYX1GIR7RGB	0553587196	269786828	A Choir of Ill Children	Books	5	12	13	N	N	"We are a family.  This is blood."	As one reads A Choir Of Ill Children (peruses might be a better word, for like Thomas, the reader is always drawn back to the past) one comes to understand that horror, and the horrible, are two different things.  As such this book uses the horrible to achieve its goals.  Three brothers joined at the head, fates or furies as the case might be.  A serial dog kicker haunts the night.  A one-legged child-killer lurks, his victim a harbinger of change.  And swamp witches sacrifice themselves piece by piece to stave of karma.  These images are horrible, and horribly funny at the same time.<br /><br />Picirilli's storytelling rides roughshod over the reader as Thomas faces a past that lives with him in an old mansion in Kingdom Come. It follows him about as he visits the stations of his own personal cross - a bar, his factory, an altar in the swamp, an empty church.  The shift from external quest to the internal seeking that is its cognate is subtle.  Is Thomas intent on standing still or moving on?  Will there be an end, or a new beginning?  I think that these may be the real questions.<br /><br />Everything, sleeping and awake, seems full of signs and portents.  Piccirilli intentionally overloads the textual messages, but underlying the almost symphonic interplay of key phrases and themes is a Thomas whose sense of belonging is what gets him through his challenges.  He is a family looking for a way to happen, and if he can just find the right key he can put everything back together his way.<br /><br />There are some stunning moments in this book when Piccirilli displays his poetic abilities in his sensitivity to language and its movement.  The last paragraph of the book is one of those strangely perfect pieces of prose that will haunt you, but there are many others.  This is horror in the service of literature, intended to take the reader somewhere and managing to do exactly that.  Pay attention - \\"Our illusions have muscle and meaning.\\"	2004-09-26
512555:US	53082946	R1JX542LENYOUH	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	3	32	53	N	N	Et In Novum Arcadia Ego	It is rarely that I am troubled by how to review a book.  But I find Robin McKinley's 'Sunshine' difficult to review because an otherwise decent book is marred by having an entirely derivative plot.  The basic plot tells the story of Rae (Sunshine) Seddon, a 20-year-old woman who works in her family restaurant as a baker.  She is for the most part a typical, shallow young lady of a semi-rural society with an occasional ability to work small transmutations.  Then she is kidnapped by a group of vampires to work the end of another of their kind, and through sheer stubbornness, more than anything else, manages to escape with Con, the vampire in question.  This creates a tie between the two that pits Sunshine's developing powers against her desires to be 'normal.'<br /><br />If this sounds similar to Charlaine Harris's Sookie Stackhouse books you would be right.  For all that this plot is set not at the beginning of the vampires' entry into society by after a long and destructive war between 'suckers' and humans it returns time and again to the same issues and character development that Sookie experienced.  Sunshine's rescue of Con puts her at odds with another master vampire and the core story is how this weepy, insecure woman struggles to keep herself an her vampire in one piece.  All of this occurs against a social context full of 'Others' - creatures of fantasy and the occult.  In this alternate world it is illegal to be a vampire.  There is even a Special Other Force (SOF) to protect society from such predators.  While life in the small city of New Arcadia is generally a soothing gentle existence, the times are changing.  Suddenly drained corpses are appearing and the SOF suspects that Sunshine's suddenly blooming powers as a sorceress might help relieve the problem - and keep back the dark for one more day.<br /><br />McKinley writes well, and Sunshine is no exception.  Be prepared for a nearly endless amount of detailing though.  Almost everything is explained to the point that there are moments when you might think that you are reading a textbook.  I believe that this means that sequels are expected and that the pace will pick up now that the writer has laid the groundwork.  There are certainly enough loose ends left at the end of the book.  I hope that Con isn't relegated to the same background existence that Sookie's Bill has been assigned.  Con, who is normally a mushroom shade of gray, lacking any real attractiveness, is a much more interesting a character than Bill.  And the finely grained depiction of the folks at Charlie's Coffee Bar has its own charm.<br /><br />For two reasons - the derivative plot and the obsessive amount of background information - I'm only giving this book three stars.  But keep in mind that the potential is here for a very strong series if McKinley decides to carry out some of the possibilities that are only touched on in this initial volume.  As such I think it is worth following.to the point that there are moments when you might think that you are reading a textbook.  I believe that this means that sequels are expected and that the pace will pick up now that the writer has laid the groundwork.  There are certainly enough loose ends left at the end of the book.  I hope that Con isn't relegated to the same background existence that Sookie's Bill has been assigned.  Con, who is normally a mushroom shade of gray, lacking any real attractiveness, is a much more interesting a character than Bill.  And the finely grained depiction of the folks at Charlie's Coffee Bar has its own charm. <br /> <br />For two reasons - the derivative plot and the obsessive amount of background information - I'm only giving this book three stars.  But keep in mind that the potential is here for a very strong series if McKinley decides to carry out some of the possibilities that are only touched on in this initial volume.  As such I think it is worth following. <br />	2004-09-23
513828:US	53082946	RC0CNAPP1M4DE	1561583448	965754117	Practical Design Solutions and Strategies (Essentials of Woodworking)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Finding the Golden Path	Taunton Press has two collections of articles on woodworking design in publication.  As the title indicated, this collection focuses in the practical issues of furniture design, primarily to do with construction decisions.  Speaking as someone who has occasionally 'created' himself into a corner, this is important material.  After all, it never hurts to have a good grasp of what it really is going to take to make an interesting idea into a good piece of furniture.<br /><br />Well illustrated and lucidly presented the six sections are Conceiving Your Projects, Organizing Your Projects, Engineering Furniture to Last, Construction Options for Tables, Construction Options for Cabinets, and Construction Options for Chairs.  Each section contains articles of considerable interest.  The detailing on table construction and the two articles on chair making are particularly interesting.  Both focus on the 'holistic' factors of the project rather than simply covering joinery.<br /><br />By fitting into the niche that sees design and construction as a process, the reader will come to see how each decision effects the final outcome.  This means that what you see in your imagination is more likely to appear in front of you as finished work.  While this is not a volume for beginners, taking the time to go through this book and understand the principals  will keep you out of trouble and increase your satisfaction with the final product.	2004-09-22
515210:US	53082946	RPOJLWRY6EN9H	1565048458	103249495	Darkest Heart	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Unkindest Cut	Sonja Blue is a vampire with an extremely bad attitude.  Ever resentful of the act that took away her future as a human being and left her mind at war with itself, Sonja has chosen to make vampires her preferred victims.  She and here silver switchblade have gained a black reputation in an underworld full of dark reputations.  Most 'pretenders' have heard of her, and those that prey on humans have every reason to fear her.<br /><br />Perhaps the people who should really fear her are the humans that penetrate Sonja's isolation and, for an inevitably short time become something like lovers.  Sonja, who spends most of her emotional resources seeking revenge and fighting for control over the 'other' that shares her mind, has little left for partners.  Darkest Heart is the story of two such men.<br /><br />The first of this is Judd.  Fans of Sonja will recognize the short story that begins this novel.  Judd was attracted to Sonja because he liked her as a human, not for the dark horror that lay within.  For Sonja this was overwhelming, but her coping mechanisms are self destructive and the relationship ends in disaster.<br /><br />The novel itself tells the story of Jack Estes, a vampire hunter himself, who joins up with Sonja to hunt the vampire that killed his father.  For Sonja, who doesn't take lovers or partners any longer, the connection is full of anxiety and doubt.  But this is an opportunity to take on a vampire noble in the security of his own lair.  And of course, there is something more.  Other than her lust for blood Estes and Sonja have much in common.  This mutual understanding becomes impossible to resist.<br /><br />Collins makes a point in her afterword of declaring that this is her last Sonja Blue novel.  So far, this seems to be the case.  Yet, by itself, Darkest Heart seems incomplete, begging for a sequel.  The writing is erratic, and the reader will sense that there really is some level of internal dissatisfaction that drives the story.  Collins wants to be more than a writer of quirky vampire novels, and it is impossible to blame her.  On hopes that at some point in her development Collins returns to complete this stories unfinished business.  Sonja deserves more than the lingering, endless dark.Collins wants to be more than a writer of quirky vampire novels, and it is impossible to blame her.  On hopes that at some point in her development Collins returns to complete this stories unfinished business.  Sonja deserves more than the lingering, endless dark.	2004-09-21
516924:US	53082946	R3GWUKUJN658D0	1561585939	139762698	Tauntons Complete Illustrated Guide to Box Making	Books	5	48	56	N	N	The Maker's Art	Box making is a microcosm of woodworking.  Machining the wood, shaping, turning, joinery and every form of embellishment are involved, and the small size allows the use of precious woods that are beyond the means of most weekend furniture makers.  As well as opening the craftsperson to an incredible diversity of design possibilities.  Box making is a form of artistic expression that can bring out the best of the woodworker, and hone all the skills that create excellence in the macro world as well.<br /><br />I'm not ashamed to admit that I have a yen to make boxes - small, prizewinning works of art that might be the comfort of my old age.  But first, I have to learn how.  How to jump the gap between a satisfactory maple kitchen table and these little containers with their high 'wow' factor.  Hence my acquisition of Doug Stowe's tidy monograph on Box Making.<br /><br />This is one of Taunton's 'Complete Illustrate Guides to...' As series of beautifully made books that are often a pleasure just to hold and look through.  Once again Taunton sets a very high standard.  As always, the discussion starts out with a discussion of tools and jigs, then materials, joinery, lids, bases, interiors, hardware, and decoration.  A final section introduces shaped boxes.<br /><br />While Stowe only occasionally takes you through the details of making a particular box, he delves deep into the hows and whys, in the tradition of this entire series.  The result is that the reader comes to grasp box making conceptually rather than simply learning to mimic.  I find this combination of practical advice and idea building the best way to get excited about a project.  Even as I write I'm thinking about a small pile of rosewood that is sitting in my shop, beckoning.	2004-09-19
518942:US	53082946	REF59X0OTPB17	1880284677	568528509	The Affair of the Incognito Tenant: A Mystery With Sherlock Holmes	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Bees and Bonnets	Additions to the Sherlock Holmes canon are always to be viewed with a jaundiced eye.  Each represents a modification to an imagined history.  Questions of its fit and characterization often completely outweigh the simple requirements of being a good story.  I didn't realize the Affair of the Incognito Tenant was going to conflict with Laurie R, King's own invention of Holmes latter day life until I took it out of its parcel.  Once discovered, Lora Roberts' tale was doomed to be measured with a sharp yardstick.<br /><br />After this inauspicious start, I discovered that my forebodings were unjustified.  This story, while narrated by Charlotte Dodson, a housekeeper, rather than the ubiquitous Watson manages to hold its own prettily.  Threatened by the newly escaped Sebastian Moran, Holmes has decided to take himself and his bees undercover to Sussex.  There, as Mr. Sigerson once again, he sets up shop at Larchbanks, which has recently lost its master.  Charlotte Dodson runs the establishment while awaiting the final settlement of the estate.<br /><br />What Holme's doesn't expect is to find himself in the midst of vampire attacks, hidden jewels and contentious heirs.  Before he and Mrs. Dodson are able to prevent it, the mystery becomes the talk of the town, newspaper writers descend from everywhere, and, of course, Colonel Moran makes his inevitable appearance.<br /><br />For all its use of a strong female character, the story is very much a traditional story, especially in the case of pacing and characterization.  Those who are uncomfortable with King's Holmes may find themselves much happier with this tale, although I found Holmes just a bit too distant.  Still, I would willingly read a sequel should one appear (and I hope it does).  Roberts shows herself as a skilled writer in a different genre than her usual cozy, and we are the beneficiaries of the experiment.	2004-09-17
521842:US	53082946	RJ9QM8XAC86G3	1561586854	22436175	Working with Routers: The New Best of Fine Woodworking	Books	4	47	48	N	N	Useful, But Incomplete	There was a time not all that long ago when I had not routers, and now I have three - four if you count my plate joiner.  I have made all the standard mistakes and confused purchases that every hobbyist makes.  Enough so that, having decided to put together a highly powered router and a 'real' table it decided to actually read a book on routers and find out what it is that I didn't know in the first place.<br /><br />As this selection of articles from Fine Woodworking demonstrates, there really is a lot to know.  They can be used for joining, shaping, decoration, and even as an emergency saw (don't do this if you have any self respect).  Understanding the world of bits - type, purpose, and composition is another challenge, one that affects both our pocketbooks and our satisfaction.  Working With Routers covers several aspects of these questions and then dives deeply into joinery, jigs, and tables.  With an unending supply of things you can build to enhance the power and flexibility of this little, whirling demon.<br /><br />The fault of this book really is that, while the articles are all interesting, they really don't offer anything like structured and thorough information.  Sometimes an article will raise as many questions as it answers.  And I know of very few people who actually would need the plans for five separate and distinct router tables.  Router coverage in Fine Woodworking has always been a bit weak, and it shows in the gaps left by this set of articles.  Still, there is a lot of information here, presented in readables styles with plenty of illustration.	2004-09-14
522250:US	53082946	RVFC8KC8GQHTJ	0843952032	656018471	Infernal Angel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Keystone Cops Meet The Hordes of Darkeness	One has to give to Edward Lee credit for almost singlehandedly created the tongue-in-cheek horror genre.  His horror manages to be both over the top and downright silly at the same time.  Where else could you find Sartre and nymphomaniac werewolves within pages of each other.  Lee combines a vividly gross imagination with the intriguing plot idea of Mephistopolis, Lucifer's vast and terrible city of the damned.<br /><br />Cassie Heydon, heroine of the City Infernal, is an etheress, with powers in hell that rival Satan's own.  On Earth, however, she is locked up in an insane asylum undergoing evaluation as the suspected killer of her father.  Lucifer never rests, though, and he wants Cassie - not for her gothish good looks, but as an ingredient in a recipe to establish hell on earth.  The only thing keeping Cassie in one piece is Angeline - a caliginaut - one of the angels who spy on Hell for the powers-that-be.<br /><br />A new character in this book is Walter Grey, a college student with an unfortunately high level of geekiness.  With his love life in tatters, Walter is on the verge of suicide.  But his destiny isn't to enter hell as one of the damned, but as an etherean - the male counterpart to Cassie.  But rather than a half-crazy angel as a tour guide, Walter has a a head without a name for company.  But in many ways Walter is like Cassie, indecisive and short on self-confidence.<br /><br />For Satan, one of these two is the key to final dominion.  Yet he seems doomed by their own ineptness to always just miss capturing them.  Etherean and Etheress, following separate paths, must make the tough decisions that will either foil Satan's plot or ring in the apocalypse.  All of this told in Edward Lee's inimitable and chaotic style.	2004-09-14
523841:US	53082946	RZ1KXS2M1ZUZE	6307956577	958605289	Gift for Mother	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Instant Nostalgia	One can't fault this album for intent.  Motivated by the desire to create a gift for his 91-year-old mother, Dean Evenson, the flute player, is the driving force behind the album.  Tom Barabas joins him on piano, and, at various times, harp, viola, cello, and the chatter of birds make appearances.  The chosen content are hymns, or near-hymns.  The selection ranges fairly wide in time, but all are marked by an old-time style.<br /><br />These are all favorites, and I was surprised how many of them have some special meaning for me.  Amazing Grace, Morning Has Broken, 'Tis A Gift To Be Simple, and Let There Be Peace On Earth, among others.  Everyone who has a fondness for hymn books will find something to like.<br /><br />The downside to this very pleasant and somewhat nostalgic album is that neither Barabas nor Evenson push themselves from a performance standpoint.  Thus this is not simply an album of favorite church hymns, it sounds like what you would hear at the corner church.  Not that this is bad, it is just a bit of a disappointment, knowing of what the performers are capable.	2004-09-12
524824:US	53082946	R2HX6WOMMYV2ID	044653143X	960521744	Brimstone (Pendergast, Book 5)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Something's Cooking	Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child have made a name for themselves as writers of scientific horror disguised as occult horror.  Their tactic in what one should probably call the 'Prendergast novels' is to present an impossible situation that has occult or magical overtones and then gradually have FBI Special Agent Prendergast gradually peel away the layers of the onion until the real explanation finally surfaces.  This doesn't make things any less horrific, but it makes for a sometimes-unsettling change of venue.<br /><br />In Brimstone, the first appearances of evil are a series of spontaneous combustions, all somehow related to the first, that of Jeremy Grove, a reclusive art critic.  Grove is a remarkably unpleasant specimen, who is literally cooked from the inside out after a dinner party.  Later victims, who each die more horribly than the last seem to be drawn, almost exclusively, from his guest list.  But both the police and Prendergast (who seems to have a nose for weird) are stonewalled in their investigation by everyone's curious refusal to talk.  We are left with only the conclusion that hell itself has reached out to claim it's rightful victims.<br /><br />Prendergast, and his old friend and co-investigator Vincent D'Agosta are quickly enmeshed in an investigation in which fire and brimstone lace the air and people are cooked in spectacularly gruesome detail.  The trail leads them from Grove's Hampton mansion to a New York City apartment to Florence, Italy.  Gradually it becomes clear that this is a cat and mouse game with a killer who see Prendergast's Holmes-like brilliance as a direct threat.  Soon the hunters become the hunted.<br /><br />In a side story, all these satanic killings have created a cult following of their own and itinerat preacher Wayne Buck is drawn to NYC out of a desire to help those who are in danger of experiencing hell's final appearance.  Buck is convincing enough to take an unwieldy group of hangers on and create a loosely organized camp of followers who are camped near one of the crime sites.  This brings in another old friend, Captain Laura Hayward of the NY police.  Her task is to prevent the campers from becoming a mob and get them safely dispersed.  A task that rapidly becomes as difficult as Prendergast's adventures in Italy.<br /><br />Brimstone is interesting and well written, but it fails to reach the high mark of some of the writers' earlier efforts.  Much of this is because the general trend of the story is predictable if the reader is familiar with the previous novels in this series.  While we get to share moments that develop several of the characters on a more personal level, the fact remains that Prendergast is brilliant, but even more stand-offish and arrogant than Sherlock Holmes, who he is clearly modeled after - singularly unsympathetic as a main character.<br /><br />While I enjoyed the story, it simply never quite grabbed me, and I found myself putting it down to read something else several times.  The momentum that we look for in modern horror just isn't there.  And the writing isn't fine grained enough to make up the difference.  But, given the quantity of really bad horror that gets written nowadays, Brimstone has much to offer that starving fan.organized camp of followers who are camped near one of the crime sites.  This brings in another old friend, Captain Laura Hayward of the NY police.  Her task is to prevent the campers from becoming a mob and get them safely dispersed.  A task that rapidly becomes as difficult as Prendergast's adventures in Italy. <br /> <br />Brimstone is interesting and well written, but it fails to reach the high mark of some of the writers' earlier efforts.  Much of this is because the general trend of the story is predictable if the reader is familiar with the previous novels in this series.  While we get to share moments that develop several of the characters on a more personal level, the fact remains that Prendergast is brilliant, but even more stand-offish and arrogant than Sherlock Holmes, who he is clearly modeled after - singularly unsympathetic as a main character. <br /> <br />While I enjoyed the story, it simply never quite grabbed me, and I found myself putting it down to read something else several times.  The momentum that we look for in modern horror just isn't there.  And the writing isn't fine grained enough to make up the difference.  But, given the quantity of really bad horror that gets written nowadays, Brimstone has much to offer that starving fan.	2004-09-11
527498:US	53082946	R2YWZXDRUUKYXN	1561584010	549155441	The Complete Illustrated Guide To Joinery	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Getting Things Together	One of Taunton Press's best efforts is the 'Complete Illustrated' guide series.  The books are all well illustrated with and emphasis on both quality and durability in the binding.  They make use of writers who are well-established craftspeople who have served as teaching professionals as well.  'Joinery' is no exception to this rule as it opens the door into what many think of as the secret science of woodworking.  Certainly few things will create disagreement among woodworkers the way the question of how two bring two pieces of wood together to make one.<br /><br />The book is divided into three parts - Tools (hand tools, small power tools, and machines), Carcase Joinery (butt, rabbet, groove, dado, miter, finger, mortise-and-tenon, and dovetail joints), and Frame Joinery (butt, miter, lap, bridle, scarf, splice, edge, and mortise-and-tenon).  Each joint type is discussed in some detail, covering both the theory behind the working of the joint and discussions of how to make the joints.  In general, the level of detail and clarity are very good.<br /><br />There are those who would sit down and read this book from cover to cover.  Some, no doubt, would actually remember it all.  But for most of us the best use of Gary Rogowski's work is as a reference.  Browse through it several times to expand our joiner's imagination, and then deep dive into the joints for a potential project.  Eventually, you will absorb an alarming amount of knowledge.  Just as, with practice, the skills required for each joint develop and grow.<br /><br />It amazes me how, each time I return to this book I find something completely new.  Rogowski has a straightforward writing style that meshes well with the format of this series.  The only thing I would add are even more pictures, even a gallery of various examples.  This is a volume I am delighted to own.	2004-09-09
528904:US	53082946	R1P67GQU592A5J	0689867018	222150908	Dark Mirror (Angel)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Double, Double, Toil and Trouble	If it isn't enough that Angel is scheduled to be part of a coming apocalypse, now Angel Investigations must deal with the Seven Sinners, a demon cult that intends to hijack that apocalypse and substitute one of their own - 'The Remorse,' which is something akin to a wave of world destroying guilt.  To accomplish this the Sinners must create doubles of a select group of characters, drawn from both the good and evil sides of the coming conflict.<br /><br />From the first moments of the story, when the residents of the Hyperion watch a private eye shoot himself, the Angel team must deal with an enemy that can look like anyone they know.  In particular, each other.  And every double is intent on killing its original.  This we have a dark comedy where the only way to be sure that people are really who they seem to be is to have them sing for Lorne.  If you can be sure that Lorne is Lorne.<br /><br />Craig Shaw Gardner is a prolific writer who has proven his capabilities with several mainstream series as well as the 'specialty' trade of such as the Angel/Buffy books.  He brings a measure of balance to these books, less interested in creating yet another marathon adventure than he is in putting together something that really does merit being called a novel.<br /><br />It is almost unexpected to be reading an Angel story that actually takes a look into the interior motivations of the lesser characters, and spends some time scene building.  As such, Dark Mirror stands out both for an interesting plot and for its unique portrayals of Fred and Lilah.  This is much more of a team book than other Angel efforts as well.  Nobody gets to hog the spotlight.<br /><br />The flaw of the book is a weak ending in an otherwise solid effort.  Along the way on is lead to expect something of a battle royal type ending.  Yet, while the characters might feel they are in a last ditch struggle, Gardner doesn't quite communicate that feeling to the reader - things are a bit too cut and dry.  Still, I feel this is one of the better Angel books and a worthwhile read even if just for its interesting portrayal of Lilah.dry.  Still, I feel this is one of the better Angel books and a worthwhile read even if just for its interesting portrayal of Lilah. <br />	2004-09-08
530373:US	53082946	R1PVINCPEKK0QD	1561587125	632346590	The Handplane Book (Taunton Books & Videos for Fellow Enthusiasts)	Books	5	146	151	N	N	Make Everything Much Planer	Frankly, handplanes scare me.  Not because they are particularly dangerous, but because I never seemed to be able to get them set right.  Almost every other tool I've used comes out of the box ready to do something interesting to a piece of wood.  Planes, however, would always move three inches and dig in, scarring their way across my project.  Needless to say I used a lot of sandpaper in my life.<br /><br />My moment of truth was the surprise acquisition of a Lie-Nielson bench plane at a very reasonable price (if one can ever call a Lie-Nielson plane's price 'reasonable').  Now it was either use it or build a special shelf on which to rest it forever.  I did what I always do when confronted with a challenge - I bought a book on handplanes.  And into my live came Garrett Hack's remarkable effort, called, appropriately, 'The Handplane Book.'<br /><br />One can only describe this volume as massive overkill.  By the time I got to the chapter entitled 'How to Plane,' I had received instruction on what a plane is, its history, its mechanics, and how to tune it.  And once done with that chapter there was even more information on different kinds of planes - truing, sizing, joinery, surfacing, scrapers, shaping, and so one.<br /><br />Hack writes well, but planes are a dry subject to anyone but the most dedicated.  The book is lavishly illustrated with a remarkable selection of planes, old, new, cheap and very, very dear.  You will never, ever have to buy another book one the subject.  And that's saying something about any book.<br /><br />Of course, I ran into the shop, grabbed my new plane, fiddled with it like I knew what I was doing and promptly planed three inches, followed by a cloud of dust.  But this time I really looked at the plane and though about what to do.  More fiddling and I made it a whole six inches.  Even more fiddling and then, Gloria Dei, it suddenly went the whole distance!  And then did it again!  I feel like I've passed one of those arcane rites of passage.tes of passage.	2004-09-07
531159:US	53082946	R3JTBDSQDGKKEA	1931095132	10182093	Black Orchids from Aum	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	There's No Such Thing As A Free Orchid	This was recommended to me as an introduction to Gerard Houarner's noir fantasy.  I found it an extremely interesting example of of what I think of as 'city of adventure' fiction.  This has been around for some time - the first use of the form that I encountered was Moorcock's Tanelorn, which weaves in and out of his stories.  Other efforts in this sub-genre include Lynn Abbey and Mary Gentle.  And, more recently, Mieville's New Crobuzon and Simon Green's Nightside have appeared.  The themes are wide ranging, the only requirement being that the city and its culture be just as important as the story itself.<br /><br />Aum is one of the bleaker metropolis's in in what is usually a dark landscape.  Condemned for some unknown since to exist separate from everywhere else under permanently dark skies, Aum is a dangerous waystation for interdimensional trade and barter.  Countless gates to elsewhere open in the city, watched over by the gate mothers and their attendants.  Even to enter Aum requires bartering - the traveler must acquire a parasite that serves as a language translator.  To be without language or livelihood in Aum is an invitation to disaster lost in a city where you can buy anything - if you have the price.<br /><br />And the price in Aum is never something as simple as wealth.  In this collection every story presents a grim sort of justice - those that abuse love have it torn from them, those that bargain for kingdoms skirt empty thrones, Gods die and leave two edged artifacts.  Rarely is there even a glimmer of hope, and every tiny victory contains the seeds of its defeat.  This is Aum's curse and the bane of those who chose to come to it.<br /><br />Houarner's style is straightforward narrative with little embellishment.  With the exception of the final tale, each story stands by itself with no shared cast.  Whch is only to be expected from a collections drawn from a a number of trade publications and written over nearly a decade.  I would have liked to see more details of Aum and its workings.  Houarner, a minimalist, introduces only what he needs to further his story.  This works well for each story, but leaves the reader feeling there is something lacking when trying to read the tales as a body of work.  There is enough here to whet one's interest, but not enough to completely satisfy.nd its workings.  Houarner, a minimalist, introduces only what he needs to further his story.  This works well for each story, but leaves the reader feeling there is something lacking when trying to read the tales as a body of work.  There is enough here to whet one's interest, but not enough to completely satisfy.	2004-09-06
533798:US	53082946	RX9UHO9NKNIX1	0441010725	701127178	Singularity Sky	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	Beware The Telephone Rain	What is perhaps most interesting about Singularity Sky is what it is not about.  In Stross's universe science has the means of time travel in hand, and the earth's population has reached an astonishing 10 billion.  Suddenly aware of the risk that human ability to modify past history would create an all-powerful force manifests and, with total nonchalance, scatters 9 billion of us throughout the inhabitable worlds of the galaxy.  \\"I am not your god,\\" declares this thing that calls itself the Eschaton, although it might very well be for all practical purposes.  This being makes it perfectly clear that time travel into the past is forbidden, and enforces this policy by dropping moons on disobedient populations.  But the Eschaton is not always so brutal; there are times when it is much subtler...<br /><br />But I digress, Singularity Sky is not about the Eschaton, but about life in a reality that has more than it's share of things that can cause singularities when least expected.  The Eschaton is not the only cause of accelerated change and future shock.  Take for example the worlds of the New Republic.  Anti-progress, paranoically moral, stuck in a tension between 18th Century Russia and the modern galaxy, they had a cozy little empire going until, without warning, The Festival suddenly appears in the skies of the backwater of Rochard's World and start asking people to 'entertain' them.  Their payment for this entertainment (information) is to suddenly thrust the planet into the 23rd century and foment a revolution while they are at it.<br /><br />The real heroes of the story (if you don't count the Eschaton, the Festival, the New Republic space fleet, or the neo-Marxist revolutionary forces) are Martin Springfield, itinerant ship engine tuner and spy for somebody or other, and Rachel Mansour, special agent and spy for someone else entirely.  These two make their way onto the Lord Vanek, battle cruiser of the space fleet that is going to try to space hop to Rochard's World one split second after the Festival arrives and blow it out of space.  Unfortunately this skates right on the edge of violating the Eschaton's directive, and fails to take into consideration the fact that the Festival doesn't fight fair either.  Rachel and Martin find themselves desperately trying to sidetrack a crisis that could result in the destruction of several worlds.<br /><br />That, in a nutshell is what Singularity Sky is about.  Leaving out the peculiar socioeconomic condition created by having the Festival appear and start granting the desires of anyone who can muster up a story (be very, very careful what you wish for).  Or the adventures of the ex-governor of Rochard's World, who finds himself suddenly very young and adventuring with a talking rabbit.  Or one of the Critics that hitch rides with the Festival, searching the world for its creative soul, disguised as Baba Yaga in a hut on the legs of a chicken.  Yes, this is a more complicated story than you originally thought.<br /><br />While the main story of the book is pure space opera, other story arcs range from political and social commentary to post-postmodern aesthetics.  Stross loves tiny details and technical discourses, as well.  This, for almost any reader, there will be moments of delight and flashes of tedium.  Unless your interests exactly duplicate Stross's own.  Mine come close, and I find his ability to combine the best of E. E. 'Doc' Smith with the philosophical outlook of Michel Foucault sometimes jarring, but always interesting.  This isn't Stross's best book to date, Atrocity Archives is still my favorite, but, once he gets past the scene setting, this shows every sign of being a topnotch series.'s World one split second after the Festival arrives and blow it out of space.  Unfortunately this skates right on the edge of violating the Eschaton's directive, and fails to take into consideration the fact that the Festival doesn't fight fair either.  Rachel and Martin find themselves desperately trying to sidetrack a crisis that could result in the destruction of several worlds. <br /> <br />That, in a nutshell is what Singularity Sky is about.  Leaving out the peculiar socioeconomic condition created by having the Festival appear and start granting the desires of anyone who can muster up a story (be very, very careful what you wish for).  Or the adventures of the ex-governor of Rochard's World, who finds himself suddenly very young and adventuring with a talking rabbit.  Or one of the Critics that hitch rides with the Festival, searching the world for its creative soul, disguised as Baba Yaga in a hut on the legs of a chicken.  Yes, this is a more complicated story than you originally thought. <br /> <br />While the main story of the book is pure space opera, other story arcs range from political and social commentary to post-postmodern aesthetics.  Stross loves tiny details and technical discourses, as well.  This, for almost any reader, there will be moments of delight and flashes of tedium.  Unless your interests exactly duplicate Stross's own.  Mine come close, and I find his ability to combine the best of E. E. 'Doc' Smith with the philosophical outlook of Michel Foucault sometimes jarring, but always interesting.  This isn't Stross's best book to date, Atrocity Archives is still my favorite, but, once he gets past the scene setting, this shows every sign of being a topnotch series.	2004-09-03
542926:US	53082946	R13U010AKS8Y4A	1561581259	668857066	The Complete Guide to Sharpening	Books	5	97	99	N	N	Full Coverage Of An Arcane Skill	This is genuinely the most exhaustive volume I have ever seen in the world of woodworking.  Leonard Lee (who is the president of Veritas and Lee Valley Tools) has made every effort to leave out none of the minutia of the world of sharpening.  I'm making fun a bit, but there is no question but that this is 'the complete guide ...'<br /><br />Lee starts right out with the definition of sharpness, the physics of cutting wood, metallurgy, abrasives and equipment.  Then he gets down to tools and techniques.  Everyone expects chapters on chisels, planes, and knives, but Lee goes on to tweezers, Phillips screwdrivers, claw hammer claws and several other things that you may have never thought were dull.<br /><br />For all the density of information, Lee's delivery is clear and he makes good use of illustration.  And there is a great deal of pleasure to be gained from owning a book that really does live up to its title.  Whether beginning or expert sharpener, this is certainly the text to own	2004-08-26
543415:US	53082946	R34G6OMP0C4P9O	0312288506	466997771	Ash Child (Gabriel Du Pre Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	"For he is like a refiner's fire"	When an old and crazy woman is killed in her house Gabriel Du Pre, Montanan, Metis Indian, and Peter Bowen's primary adjuster of fate, is drawn into the investigation.  Just out of the hospital, Du Pre is promptly knock out cold while the woman's cabin and a friend's dog are burnt to ashes.  What unfolds is a story that gradually shifts from Bowen's usual light-hearted style to something grim and terrifying - all of this playing against a menacing firestorm that threatens to spill all over the Wolf Mountains.<br /><br />There is always a grim side to Bowen's detailed stories of rural Montana life, where attitude plays stronger than ethnic background.  But usually the interplay between Du Pre, his woman Madelaine, and the countless, gemlike characters that people the stories keeps the reader smiling, fascinated by the strange array of the Metis dialect and the ever-present sense of music that it portends.  But Ash Child sneaks up on you.  At first the crimes seem like they are little more than troublemaking gone awry, and then, suddenly, you sense a dark intelligence using the worst form of murder weapon.<br /><br />An interesting development in this story is the extensive involvement of Madelaine, whose usually role is as a contrast to Du Pre.  This time Benetse, a zany old medicine man, maneuvers her into the position of spiritual investigator and hunter.  Du Pre conflicted by his love for her and his undeniably macho mental role barely manages to cope with this.  But Madelaine proves every bit as tough as her companion, and it is really she that opens the gates to hell, with Du Pre in tow.<br /><br />My only criticism of the novel is that the final arc turns like the barb on a fishhook - sudden and deadly sharp.  You think you're heading in one direction and suddenly you are elsewhere.  Bowen intentionally keeps his novels short and pithy, but this time I wish there had been more of a transition.  Even so, this is a brilliant story, full of the things that make the author's idiosyncratic work catch and compel the reader.ic work catch and compel the reader.	2004-08-25
547100:US	53082946	R3OT0DNCDSPBJL	4925080768	471834234	Inugami Clan	Books	4	30	31	N	Y	Inherit The Wind	Japanese popular fiction is much under-represented in the US, while film and anime do quite well. So out of interest in all things Japanese I sought out the few volumes of popular mysteries that have been translated. What I've found is that, while the Japanese approach to storytelling is different from what is common in the USA, it is equally interesting.<br /><br />Japanese writers, of whom Seishi Yokomizo is a notable example, unfold their tales differently. For example, it's not uncommon for the reader to be told what is going to happen even before events begin to unfold. The narrative descriptions of the crimes, while often grim tend to be clinical by our standards. Thus, in the Inugami Clan, which was a Japanese best seller, a strange will will left by a wealthy man reveals a peculiarly twisted set of relationships and triggers four deaths and several other attempts. The killings are carefully presented, but never overwhelm the story.<br /><br />And the story isn't the murders, but the unfolding of a complicated set of relationships that seem to shift with every glance. The crimes, investigated by Kosuke Kindaichi (a Japanese Sherlock Holmes) become the bitter framework, upon which three sisters and the heirs to the fortune perform a stately, yet terrible dance. The ghost of the end of World War II and a chilling winter add to the sense of desolation.<br /><br />Yokomizo excels at descriptive moments, whether he is focusing on people or the settling. He brings the landscape to life in a fashion which has been lost to the action oriented writing of the west. This is true to such the degree that a reader, unused to the differences and expecting something out of a Hong Kong fight film is likely to blame the translation rather than realize that the small, chess-like motions of the tale are the intent of the author. The translator, Yumiko Yamazaki does a very good job of capturing this flow.<br /><br />Hopefully we will see more tales by Seishi Yokomizo reach translation in the near future. This is an opportunity to experience something uniquely Japanese in an unexpected context. To see what can be done outside the western mystery story.reach translation in the near future. This is an opportunity to experience something uniquely Japanese in an unexpected context. To see what can be done outside the western mystery story.	2004-08-22
547152:US	53082946	R12EJVFBLJEBK0	5552544021	30330993	Woodsmith (6 Issues)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Let The Chips Fall Where...	Woodsmith is officially a periodical rather than a magazine. For practical purposes this means 'no advertising.' Think of it as buying a thin little book on woodworking projects every other month for a fairly inexpensive price and you will have it well defined.<br /><br />Generally an issue will describe one or more projects of varying complexity and include additional articles on aspects of the projects. Thus a recent issue focuses on a Pencil Post Bed, and includes coverage on a useful jig and the lamb's tongue chamfer. There are other articles of use, sharpening, gluing, and a host of the other tidbits that contribute to the odd form of spellcasting that changes wood into furniture.<br /><br />There is no advertising, although possible sources for parts, etc., are listed. Plan quality is variable, but over-all the directions are quite clear. They don't assume you know much about woodwork past being comfortable with the tools, but expect to go through the plans multiple times in order to 'get' all the twists and turns. Presentation and layout is excellent, which helps a great deal.<br /><br />One word of caution, this is paperbound, not a hardback. Nicely put together and three-hole punched. Binders are available at the Woodsmith website.	2004-08-22
547370:US	53082946	R3LT0T20BXG56C	033037401X	220927886	Midwinter of the Spirit (A Merrily Watkins Mystery)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Sacrifice of Crows	Phil Rickman is an author of British horror stories who has the ability to put together a 500-and-some page novel (with small print) without grinding down the reader. He does this without giving way to the temptation to spray everything with gore, and spends time building both interior and exterior structure and characterization. Even so, I approached Midwinter of the Spirit with some trepidation, because the central plot device, a female Episcopalian vicar turned church exorcist sounded a bit too sensationalist to me. Now that I've actually taken the time to read one of the Merrily Watkins stories I can honestly say that this is some of his best work.<br /><br />Midwinter of the Spirit is the first of the exorcist novels (not counting the one that introduces Merrily as a vicar). After suffering through a visitation of her own, Merrily is offered the position of exorcist by the young bishop of Hereford (in modern times we don't call them exorcists, though - Merrily is a 'deliverance consultant'). After a short course in creatures of the night Merrily is thrust right into the middle of Hereford's occult world, hampered by her predecessor who is a misogynistic curate of the strictest kind. He doesn't hesitate to throw her into a confrontation that is over her head and from that point on we leap from crisis to crisis.<br /><br />In addition to Merrily's issues within the church, her sixteen-year-old daughter has become determined to try out her own wings. Jane begins to dabble into exactly the kind of spiritualism that Merrily is expected to oppose. Lured into the world of the craft by a new friend, Jane's first steps trigger a series of events that quickly go beyond family spats. And in a third subplot, Moon, a somewhat spooky young archeologist with a history of instability moves into a barn haunted by her own past. She is intent on writing a history of the Neolithic culture that lies beneath modern Hereford. But somehow she finds herself trying to make a connection to her father's suicide - with disastrous results.<br /><br />The publisher's description calls that the first 'spiritual-procedural' thriller, and that is very much what it is about. Far from being overdosing the reader with huge amounts of ritual magic, Rickman manages a deft mix of magic, the personal lives of some interesting people (Merrily is nothing like what you would expect a vicar to be), and a set of puzzles that read almost like a spy thriller. The blend is surprisingly believable despite a string of sacrifices, psychic events, and magical powers. I was delighted with the work, and am looking forward to the other volumes in the series.ction to her father's suicide - with disastrous results.  <br /> <br />The publisher's description calls that the first 'spiritual-procedural' thriller, and that is very much what it is about. Far from being overdosing the reader with huge amounts of ritual magic, Rickman manages a deft mix of magic, the personal lives of some interesting people (Merrily is nothing like what you would expect a vicar to be), and a set of puzzles that read almost like a spy thriller. The blend is surprisingly believable despite a string of sacrifices, psychic events, and magical powers. I was delighted with the work, and am looking forward to the other volumes in the series.	2004-08-22
547860:US	53082946	R1WX4JH3AFJZVX	1588468445	583465764	Dead Roses for a Blue Lady: A Sonja Blue Collection	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Silver Threads Among The Graves	Nancy Collins may not have originated Southern punk vampire stories (if you will admit that such a thing exists) but she has played a key role in the development of the genre. Her narratives are more pithy and less meandering than Poppy Brite and Caitlin Kiernan (who is heir and grand master to all of them). Sonja Blue is in many ways a comic book style character. Made a vampire unwillingly, full of anger, she has set about destroying the monsters of the world. The monsters like her.<br /><br />She is conflicted struggling much like a dark Angel to keep from giving into the evil that has set up a home within her, she lurks on the edges of society defending it against the predators, even as she wonders whether it is worth saving. There isn't a lot of hope in Sonja Blue. Even in Nonesuch, the longest story in this collection, the prospect of a society where pretenders and humans can live together is poisoned by the knowledge that it is a flower in the desert, and not a pretty one.<br /><br />For the most part these tales tell of Sonja Blues quirky kind of justice which sometimes destroys a monster lurking on the street and at other times shatters the fragile beauty of old death. The narrator is sometimes Sonya, sometimes another character, and sometimes Collins herself. Because the book is drawn partially from existing storys and part from new material, the writing style seems a bit inconsistent. Collins remains a matter-of-fact writer throughout, rarely getting lost in excessive prose.<br /><br />I found the book half satisfying. It falls short of some of Collins other work (Sunglasses After Dark and In The Blood, for example). It you are looking for the best introduction to Collins' work try Midnight Blue, which collects all the early Sonja Blue material. This collection is a bit more for already made fans, who can tolerate the unevenness to get to the juicy bits.	2004-08-22
554423:US	53082946	R2ZNRQYUKC9I7K	1561582980	868570700	Finishes & Finishing Techniques: Professional Secrets for Simple & Beautiful Finish (Essentials of Woodworking)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Surface Values	Finishes & Finishing Techniques is part of Taunton Press' essentials of woodworking series.  It is the first of two compilations from Fine Woodworking that cover a wide variety of finishing techniques and styles.  This wide spread of material, and the variety of opinions that a collection of articles can present make this a valuable resource for the woodworker, although I think that a good introductory book is still a necessity.  Fine Woodworking articles are written for practitioners with a certain amount of experience and confidence, exploring a lot of the variations that are possible.  This can be overwhelming for someone who just wants to put a nice finish on that all-important first project.<br /><br />The structure of the book is straightforward - sections on surface preparation, coloring wood, hand finishing, spray finishing, water-based finishes, and special techniques.  I found the special techniques particularly interesting in that it provided an approach to blotch free cherry finishing that has become the basis for most of the finishing I do.  There are also some articles on aging, antiquing, and repairs.  And even an article on not finishing at all which is a bit eye-opening.<br /><br />This is all good, well-written material, but don't expect to absorb it in one sitting.  When you are contemplating a new project this is one of the best resources for finding solutions and coming up with a new approach rather than the same old rubbing finish.	2004-08-16
556829:US	53082946	R3V7X98DZSC710	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	176	181	N	Y	Witch Wolf Was It?	For me, Charlaine Harris represents what vampire romance stories could be if they let go of all the solemn gothic trappings that they only too often hide a lack of plot behind.  Sookie Stackhouse proves that a down to earth waitress in a small town Louisiana bar can be just as effective a heroine as your basic kinky necromancer type.  Sookie's not quite normal - she can read minds - but she has a straightforward approach to the weirdness within and without her that is like a breath of fresh air.<br /><br />This is the fourth book in the series, and finds Sookie back in Bon Temps still fuming at the perfidy of her ex-boyfriend Bill the vampire (yes, I said Bill).  In fact all that Sookie wants to do is wait on tables, watch cable, and not get beaten up by yet another supernatural creature.  In fact, when Bill announces he is bound for Peru to do research, she is even a bit pleased.  But nothing lasts, and while driving home one night she finds Eric, the Area 5 vampire sheriff wandering around in various states of undress, and lacking any memory of who he was.<br /><br />Suddenly Sookie, who finds the new Eric much nicer than the old one, is embroiled in a war that pits a coven of extortionist witches against an every supernatural creature in the Shrevesport area.  To make matters worse, Sookie's brother disappears, leaving her worried to death and depending on a mixed crew of vampires, weres, and a somewhat ditzy fairy for support and protection.<br /><br />Of course, the secret of Harris's success is that Sookie is a lot tougher than you might think.  Yes, she is emotional, attracted to the spookiest men, and lacks fashion sense, but underneath it all she has learned to pick up the pieces and carry on.  If you don't count her taste in men, what Sookie does always makes sense.  And her wry, humble style cannot fail to charm.<br /><br />Harris manages to tread the line between sexiness and bad taste with surer feet than Laurell Hamilton.  As a result the eroticism never distracts from the plot and the solid narrative style that Sookie uses.  It you are interested in a new twist on the girl-meets-vampire genre these books are a great place to start.icism never distracts from the plot and the solid narrative style that Sookie uses.  It you are interested in a new twist on the girl-meets-vampire genre these books are a great place to start.	2004-08-14
558374:US	53082946	R3QR1Y7L8YI11Z	0689870841	980290809	Book of the Dead (ANGEL)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Missing Ink	It's always a surprise to pick up a new Angel or Buffy book by and unknown author and find that not only is the book quite good, but the author is only unknown to me.  In a sense it's a bonus, I get to enjoy a new book and find a new author to follow.  This is certainly the case with Ashley McConnell's Book of the Dead, which is both well written, has an ingenious plot device, and features Wesley, one of the team who more often than not is on the outs.<br /><br />An obscure volume of spells finds its way to an occult store in Los Angeles.  When the owner of the store examines the book he discovers it is The Red Compendium, a legendary volume containing the last and greatest spells of history's most noted mages - all of whom seem to have disappeared.  One missing store owner later the book, really a trap designed by a demonic Bookwyrm to collect spells, finds its way to an auction and then into Wesley's hands.  Wes finds the book impossible to put down.<br /><br />Two collateral stories richen the broth.  Emilio Herrara, and alienated high school student who has been coming to the store to swap work for bits of magical training, steals several books and suddenly tries to become a master wizard in one great leap.  A disastrous leap for all those concerned.  Angel and the team are desperately trying to trace Emilio down when they aren't trying to de-biblographize poor Wesley.  And an old watcher school friend (make that not-quite-friend) of Wesley's suddenly shows up in Los Angeles.  Adrian O'Flaherty has never really got along with the priggish Wesley, but Adrian's real agenda isn't making up with Wesley, it's revenge on the killer of his father.<br /><br />Between Wesley's involuntary adventures in a book turned delicatessen, a teenager determined to work out his hostility with ferocious demons, and Adria's surfeit of hidden agendas, this is a plot that never stops anywhere for very long.  It says something for McConnell's writing ability that despite all this the read never feels rushed or confused.  In fact the pacing is perfect.  In addition, a series of flashbacks to Wesley's adventures as a watcher-in-training give us a one of his best fleshed out characterizations.  It makes you wish that the series hadn't come to an end.the read never feels rushed or confused.  In fact the pacing is perfect.  In addition, a series of flashbacks to Wesley's adventures as a watcher-in-training give us a one of his best fleshed out characterizations.  It makes you wish that the series hadn't come to an end.	2004-08-12
560076:US	53082946	R1DYGNQO3LDJUP	0843951257	265201169	The Night Class	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Never Color Outside The Lines	The Night Class starts out fairly mildly, with almost a 'Catcher In The Rye' style that the story never quite loses.  But as the intricacies of Tom Piccirilli's tale of the misadventures of Caleb Prentiss unfold we discover that underlying the lives of Cal and his fellow university students something dark and sardonic lurks.<br /><br />Cal returns from a near disastrous spring break only to discover that a murder has been committed in his dorm room.  Compulsive, Cal seeks out the details of the crime and the truth about the victim, Sylvia Campbell.  In the end he ensconces himself in a tomblike basement room to contemplate her artifacts.  His obsession with the murder mirrors his inability to escape the shadows of his sister's suicide, his feelings for Sylvia becoming, in a way, a more real relationship than what he has with his current girlfriend, Jodi.<br /><br />Of course, it doesn't help that every time someone close to Cal dies, his palms start to bleed.  For our stigmatic hero, careening from classroom to dorm, to a strip joint and a party at the dean's house, everything opens up to reveal an inner bleakness that parodies university life in a way that 'The Paper Chase' never managed to.  There is more dark humor than horror to this book, where most of the crimes occur just off stage, heralded by Cal's bleeding palms, and put to bed only uneasily.<br /><br />One can't help but like Cal, more of a misfit than a rebel, who seems to march to a different drummer.  He starts out in a class on ethics from which he must retreat if he is to maintain his own ethical sense.  This is the core struggle of the book as Cal comes face to face with the supernatural side of academic perfidy.  On his way he consults oracles and struggles with Circe and her creatures made flesh.  From it beginning to its equivocal end, The Night Class retains its compelling story line, continually challenging the reader with a horror that relies on irony as well as blood and gore.	2004-08-10
561686:US	53082946	R3EGMKZ3DYGK4B	0756401836	474978429	Smoke and Shadows	Books	5	25	30	N	Y	Darkness Rises	I keep thinking that I should read more of Tanya Huff's other books, but they never appeal to me as much as the original volumes of this series do.  I'm referring to the five volumes that tell of Vicki Nelson, a private investigator, and her relationship with Henry Fitzroy, on a prince, and now a vampire romance writer.  There Huff demonstrated both finesse as a story-teller and a self-effacing style which kept everything in hand without calling on the hysteria which is often part of vampire fiction.<br /><br />Well, here it is several years later and we find that Henry, and Tony Foster, who was for several years one of Fitzroy's lovers have shifted to Vancouver, where Tony has begun to find his way as a member of the strange world of broadcast television.  His first major job is as production assistant on, of all things, a series about a vampire detective.  All seems to be going well until Tony notices that some of the shadows on the set seem to have a will of their own.  And then someone dies.  And then...<br /><br />Tony discovers that somehow the studio has been invaded by shadows who are up to no good.  These are somehow tied to Arra Pelindrake, the special effects wizard.  In fact, Arra is a wizard who does special effects, having fled her own reality as it fell to the Shadowlord.  Now the darkness has found her here, and Tony, Arra, and Henry face a hopeless battle to stop this world from falling into darkness as well.<br /><br />Tony faces several crises, not the least of which is the plight of a gay man trying to establish his independence from a 400 year old vampire.  One who has a tendency to see everything as 'his.'  While Henry isn't truly overbearing, he has both a possessive streak and a very strong personality.  To make matters worse, Tony really does need help saving the world.  What makes the novel click is that Huff uses a light but sure touch in working the threads of Tony's sexuality and need for identity into the plot without overwhelming the story.<br /><br />Although Tony does come over as a bit of a wuss (shadows seem to make him nauseous - very nauseous), he gradually works past his initial wobbliness and develops onto a much stronger character than he was in the previous series.  I do think that Huff should have spent more time redeveloping Fitzroy's character.  Not every reader will have read the original series and having Henry drop in like a Deus Ex Machina and then step off-stage again doesn't ring true unless you know who Henry Fitzroy actually is.<br /><br />Even so, Smoke and Shadows turned out to be far better than I initially expected.  I would be delighted to read more of Tony's story andI hope that Tony and Henry will star together in a few more volumes before the sun rises again.oes come over as a bit of a wuss (shadows seem to make him nauseous - very nauseous), he gradually works past his initial wobbliness and develops onto a much stronger character than he was in the previous series.  I do think that Huff should have spent more time redeveloping Fitzroy's character.  Not every reader will have read the original series and having Henry drop in like a Deus Ex Machina and then step off-stage again doesn't ring true unless you know who Henry Fitzroy actually is.    Even so, Smoke and Shadows turned out to be far better than I initially expected.  I would be delighted to read more of Tony's story andI hope that Tony and Henry will star together in a few more volumes before the sun rises again.	2004-08-09
562009:US	53082946	R2U9X1TOVHNZXL	188703806X	952259818	Blood Memories	Books	4	67	68	N	Y	Helpless, helpless...	For Eleisha life as a vampire has always been perplexing.  She was made by a British lordling to care for William, who was turned in advanced senility and is now condemned to an eternity as a vampire with Alzheimer's.  She and William are bundled of to America with little or no explanation, and only the good fortune of coming under the wing of Edward, another vampire enables them to survive.  And then time passes...<br /><br />Blood Memories opens 100 years later, when Edward, worn down by countless years of darkness, commits suicide.  Suddenly Eleisha and William are cut loose again, and the spectacular death of Edward has drawn unwelcome attention.  They are being hunted by humans, and wherever they flee, death follows.  And in England, Julian, Eleisha's fearsome sire, becomes aware that all is not as it should be.<br /><br />What makes this story is Eleisha's progress.  Starting out as a vampire whose greatest power is the ability to appear helpless, she gradually comes into her own.  In many ways, Barb Hendee cuts Eleisha free from the many ties that bind her, as she confronts each problem and learns from it.  Blood Memories isn't a horror story; it is a vampire coming-of-age tale, if you can imagine such a thing.  As such, there is as much focus on the personalities of the characters as there is on the action of the story.<br /><br />As she does in the story itself, Eleisha at first attracts only sympathy from the reader.  But gradually, as she develops, one becomes aware of her charm.  Hendee, is the co-author of several other, more mainstream, vampire tales, starring a young dhampir. She has a knack for quickly building a character's presence, and so each of the cast stay in mind more than one would expect from a 'vampire tale.'<br /><br />In the end I was caught up in the Eleisha's tragedies, mishaps, and mysteries, and elated by her victories.  Coming from a small, independent publisher, and cursed with a rather lurid cover, this book exceeded my expectations in every way.  If you are looking for a vampire story with more than one unusual twist, try this one out.expectations in every way.  If you are looking for a vampire story with more than one unusual twist, try this one out.	2004-08-08
565027:US	53082946	R36BNSVA7WVKHZ	1588468585	834630928	The Wounded King (Vampire: Victorian Age, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Gods and Blood Spells	The third volume in this series resumes the story of vampires Regina Blake and Victoria Ash as the scene shifts from Paris to Vienna.  In that city is the secret master chantry of the Tremere, the blood wizards of the Masquerade.  It is into Vienna that Anton Wellig has brought Regina's mother, Emma, to enlist the support of his peers in an ornate plot aimed at ending the unlife of Mithras, the demon prince of London.  Welligs initial attempts on Mithras failed, but damaged the master vampire in such a way that the turmoil in his mind is reflected in the city's streets.<br /><br />Lord Blake, Emma's husband before her own change, also comes to Vienna to try to release his wife.  But he is not as cautious as he should have been in choosing his friends, and the attempted rescue triggers another round of disastrous consequences.  Beckett manages to rescue Emma from immediate danger, but there are countless other bumps in the road as the various players are drawn back to England for the final phases of this long drama.<br /><br />Phillipe Boulle again manages to avoid the trap many Masquerade authors fall into - that of getting so mired in the details and politics of Vampire life that their tales read more like museum exhibits than they do vampire fiction.  While this volume bogs down a bit as Boulle fleshes it out with some collateral stories, it never drags to the point that the reader's attention wanders.  And for the most part, his sub-stories flesh out his characters or expand on current events.<br /><br />The primary focus of the story is the people who move through it.  In particular Regina Blake, who comes to age as a vampire.  She presents the aspect of a woman who is made with now warning or willingness, goes through the crises of the changing experience and, eventually makes her peace with her new 'life.'  For all the glamour that vampires have, Boulle effectively cuts through the pretty picture and opens many of the interior moments of a vampire's life.  Even while presenting an absorbing tale of the battle for power among some of the darkest segments of the world of night..  Even while presenting an absorbing tale of the battle for power among some of the darkest segments of the world of night. <br />	2004-08-05
568400:US	53082946	R2OU6BLRA9FJJF	0843949880	48429437	City Infernal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Time Is Illegal In Hell	What Cassie did not expect when she and her sister (Lissa) went to their favorite goth club on night was to be drugged and then nearly seduced by her Lissa's boyfriend, be caught and then have Lissa shoot the boy and then kill herself. Instant psychological trauma, relieved only when Cassie's father figures they are both the worse for wear and moves to the Virginia backwoods, Cassie in tow, leaving a lucrative D.C. law practice behind.<br /><br />  This wouldn't be a horror story if the residents weren't weird, and the mansion wasn't originally owned by a Satanist who made a practice of sacrificing newborn children to his god. In fact, Cassie quickly makes friends with three sub-corporeal teenagers who have set up camp in the mansion, having run away from hell. In short order, things get even more complicated, and Cassie is riding the subway to Mephistopolis, which is a gigantic, bleak and horrible mirror of New York - a city that runs on terror and pain.<br /><br />  The reason for this trip is twofold, for one thing, her new found friends have discovered that she is the rarest of all creatures - an etheress. She has unexpected powers, and Satan covets her for his own dark dreams. Her other reason is that she is still seeking release from her guilty feelings about the death of her sister, convinced that she is the reason Lissa is in hell. Cassie wants to find Lissa and beg forgiveness. Of course, this is a horror story, not a fairy tale, and nothing works out quite the way you would expect it.<br /><br />  What surprised me is that Edward Lee is normally advertised as a 'gross you out' kind of horror writer. And while the cityscapes of Mephistopolis are reminiscent of Hieronymous Bosch, and organs and parts often go flying. The story somehow lacks shock value. In fact some of the features, like the mutilation squads and the subcarnation conservatory are more comic than horrible. I hate to think that, after all of this years, I've become jaded, but there are no moments here that will become burned in your memory. Still, tread softly if you have a queasy stomach.<br /><br />  On the other hand, the story, while a bit light weight, is actual both novel and interesting. Cassie is endearing as she makes her way from withdrawn and bitter goth to social reformer, and Lee's concept of hell makes a perverse sort of sense. Certainly the idea of having three young suicides as friends is an original. And the ending is hardly predictable. If you have been looking for a change of pace, City Infernal might be just what you are looking for - a unique combination of gory thriller and travelogue.become burned in your memory. Still, tread softly if you have a queasy stomach.        On the other hand, the story, while a bit light weight, is actual both novel and interesting. Cassie is endearing as she makes her way from withdrawn and bitter goth to social reformer, and Lee's concept of hell makes a perverse sort of sense. Certainly the idea of having three young suicides as friends is an original. And the ending is hardly predictable. If you have been looking for a change of pace, City Infernal might be just what you are looking for - a unique combination of gory thriller and travelogue.	2004-08-02
569643:US	53082946	R3KO79HZV55QKM	5551142450	253047771	Hollywood Noir	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mickey Spillane Meets Topper	This time Doyle's vision of provides a name and address, and little else.  Unfortunately the address is to a cemetery, and Betty McCoy has been dead for 40 years.  But even as Angel investigates this mystery a building is being torn down across town.  Freed from a hidden grave the spirit of Mike Slade returns to complete his last case.  Suddenly Angel isn't the only dead private investigator in the town of Los Angeles.<br /><br />While Angel and Cordelia pursue a thin trail of clues that seem to lead nowhere, Slade begins his hunt for Harold Wechsler, the man who ordered his death while the detective was trying to help Betty McCoy.  Slade's style is shoot first, shoot second, and then ask questions.  Soon there is a trail of injured across the landscape that neither Angel or Kate Lockley can ignore.  Nothing seems to add up as Kate tries to track down a man who has been dead for 40 years for a murder that happened this week.  And Angel tries to figure out what the Powers That Be want this time.<br /><br />This turns out to be a delightful tale that mixes old noir detection with modern plots and counterplots in the demon world.  Each fact has to be teased out of the story, and it is only slowly that the real crimes take form for the reader.  This is one of the few times where an Angel story really is a detective story, and Jeff Mariotte manages to deliver it without the descent into corniness that lurk behind a plot straight out of 60's noir.<br /><br />This is one of the older Angel novels, and one that has become hard to track down, but one that is worth reading just for the fun of it.  The characters are played straight this time, without the quippery that floods later Angel stories.  As such, the novel manages to touch a chord in the reader without indulging in the extreme emotional turmoil of later seasons.  If you get a chance, take the time to read it.	2004-08-01
571017:US	53082946	R2YIN6JIFE1F70	1561581240	118251976	Fine Woodworking Design Book Seven: 360 Photographs of the Best Work in Wood (Bk. 7)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Pretty Is As Pretty Does	There is a considerable difference between the following plans part of woodworking and the artistic design part. Like anyone else who enjoys the thrumming sounds of a happy workshop, following plans is a soothing process with a satisfying result. But getting an idea into my head (and then trying to make it real) is more frustrating - my life lacks the spare 'dream time' needed. As a substitute, I like to look at the work of others. And Taunton Press's series of design books is a fine place to start.<br /><br />Each book is like a juried shop with some 10,000 original entries. There are sections on cabinets, chairs and benches, tables, boxes & chests, desks, beds & furnishings, sculpture & carvings, turnings, and accessories & musical instruments. Some 266 individual pieces are presented.  While the pieces will appeal differently to different individuals, they all remarkable in some fashion and invited serious thought on possibilities and techniques.<br /><br />The range of style and approach presented is wide. There is everything from the ultra-modern to the ultra-traditional, from traditional furniture to sculpture and toy.  One of my favorites is the clean lines of Jay Bonaventura's dining chair, that seem echo Arts & Crafts without ever becoming that style.  Another is a deceptively simple  sideboard by Michael Hoffer.  And then there is the jaunty enthusiasm of a Randy Morris clock.  I hope one day that a piece of my work merits appearance in a publication like this.  Not likely, but with such good sources of inspiration, you never know.	2004-07-30
574780:US	53082946	R1XMNW22Z0R0GB	0689870221	590927290	Monolith (Angel the series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Two Faces Are Never Better Than One...	Driving in Los Angeles is always problematic, but when a giant monolith suddenly appears in the middle of Hollywood Boulevard to signal yet another impending apocalypse, things quickly come to a standstill.  Except for Angel and his teammates.  They know right away that it's time once again to stop sipping the pig's blood and get to work.<br /><br />When an ancient demon bamboozles a failing actress into carrying out an ancient ritual that will open the portals to hell, Angel faces a series of ugly problems.  Not the least of which is that neither he, nor Wesley, nor anyone else have a clue what is actually going on.  They know it must be bad, since every demon in town it headed out, but what kind of bad, or how bad, is still a mystery.  Everyone goes into action, but the clues are slow in coming.  And time is running out.<br /><br />As I've noted elsewhere, John Passarella is a natural storyteller.  This time he takes a high-tension story line and fleshes it out with two of the show's most complex relationships - that between Connor and Angel (who last buried Angel in the ocean) and that between Gunn and Fred (who seem caught in a web of interlocking guilt and obligation).  The result is an action story with moments of poignancy and depth.<br /><br />In fact, the story has a bit of everything.  Demon dogs, creepy wizards, dark soldiers, and wild chase scenes populate the narrative.  The characters, who have come through some rough times, are rebalancing their interplay, and Passerella captures the increasing maturity of the cast as well as the high tension of a summoning to end all summonings.  One of this year's best Angel books.	2004-07-27
578117:US	53082946	R1R6Q515TXH348	1890621668	692379534	The Complete Table Saw Book	Books	4	19	22	N	N	The Kindest Cut of All	For me, buying a new table saw is not only a cause for celebration, but an opportunity to shuffle through the shelves to find a book about my new toy. This one struck my eye - mostly because it was thicker than the others, was well laid out and seemed to cover all the salient points. Possibly not the best criteria in the world, but they have stood me in good stead for a long time now.<br /><br />  For the most part, my initial assessment was accurate. The editor Tom Carpenter, has gone out of his way to maintain a solid, plainspoken approach to the subject matter, with a great number of illustrations and photographs. I can honestly say that there are enough ideas, pointers, and explanations to greatly enhance what you get for what is often the most expensive piece of equipment in the shop.<br /><br />  Chapters cover Basics, Tune-up & Maintenance, Chosing Saw Blades, Basic Cuts, Joinery Techniques, Sawing Accessories, and Essential Jigs. That covers the first 160 pages. The second section, which is about the same size, is devoted to some information about Woodworking With Sheet Goods and a collection of ten projects.<br /><br />  This latter section, while useful, is not up to the same level of quality is the first part. Not that it's shabbily done, but that the projects, which range from a bookshelf to an entertainment center, are a bit clunky looking. They are training projects rather than works of art. As such there is a good deal of explanation to help the budding sawyer.	2004-07-24
579081:US	53082946	R9OTHB13RMS73	1930846258	161946683	The Atrocity Archives	Books	5	103	106	N	Y	Never Park In A Hilbert Space	What if Alan Turing solved one more problem and completed one last theorem?  And suddenly higher mathematics was awash in spells, summonings, and alternate dimensions where forces lived that would like nothing better than to munch on your brain.  Thanks to the Turing-Lovecraft theorem magic happens, almost inevitably for the worst.<br /><br />The British Secret Service (MI-6, the anti-spell branch) has a unique way of dealing with theoreticians who trip over the right formulae - they hire them into The Laundry and retire them to meaningless desk jobs.  Bob Howard, however, is a little to itchy for the passive life.  After a lot of trying he manages to get into field work.  Now, as a relief from an irritating boss who counts paperclips and takes regular attendance, Bob gets to deal with dark forces and demonic possession.<br /><br />There are two tales in this book.  The first is The Atrocity Archives, which was Charles Stross's initial effort.  Told as one long computer geek in-joke, the story introduces us to Bob and follows him through his first set of assignments and nervous breakdowns, while a series of ever more peculiar administrators keep telling him what a good job he's doing.<br /><br />And he is doing a good job.  Spotting mathematicians who have crossed the line, saving workshop attendees from being munched, and getting thrown out of the States for poking too far into the badness on what should have been a routine extraction.  But even good agents have bad days and our wisecracking hero finds himself going through a portal to rescue a very attractive scientist from a very dead earth.<br /><br />The second story Concrete Jungle mixes interdepartmental politics, electronic basilisks, and fears about the end of the world in a story of one too many cows.<br /><br />Intrigued?  If you are comfortable with computers, or at least have a handle on geek speak and enjoy twisted, funny writers whose imaginations have run wild, this is something you will want to read.  Despite a large serving of sarcasm and irony, Stross also manages to deliver a genuinely interesting plot with as much action as there is esoteric muttering.  By all means check this out.  I'm going to order everything else he's written.nt to read.  Despite a large serving of sarcasm and irony, Stross also manages to deliver a genuinely interesting plot with as much action as there is esoteric muttering.  By all means check this out.  I'm going to order everything else he's written.	2004-07-23
582452:US	53082946	RGLGMLL4QXTEM	0824821521	53416442	Japanese Culture (Studies of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute, Columbia Un)	Books	5	52	55	N	N	10,000 Years In 300 Pages	The tracings of Japanese culture go back some 10,000 years - speaking conservatively.  Since then there has been a remarkable continuity of inhabitation on the Japanese islands, which has resulted in one of the richest and complex cultures in the world today.  Originally heavily influenced by the neighboring Chinese culture in the period from 300 BC to 300 AD, the islands quickly found their own way and over the ensuing years have developed a breadth of integrated experience that is often baffling to the outsider or curious student.<br /><br />Paul Varley's book, in it's fourth edition and showing no signs of losing its value, is an attempt to present the significant cultural and historical developments, covering the past two millennia.  OF course, most of the focus is from the eighth century on as Japanese civilization shifted from day to day survival to a complex political framework with a great flourishing of substantive creative art.<br /><br />Considering that my standard historical reference on Japan has some seven volumes and thousands of (often tedious) pages, Varley's task is considerable and his success worthy of note.  In a mere three hundred pages of tiny print Varley manages to draw a picture of the Japanese people that, while far from complete, misses none of the key culture moments.<br /><br />He does this in a plain, business-like writing style that pours out unending amounts of information with merciless patience.  He is very readable, but not what I would call enjoyable, since the sheer quantity of information can be overwhelming.  If simply read straight through, it is easy to lose track of the thread of ideas.  But the book rewards repeated study and the reader will soon find that all this information contributes much towards an understanding of the Japanese experience.	2004-07-20
583417:US	53082946	R3VJGCG6FTL0ZG	1588468291	198295439	The Madness of Priests (Vampire: Victorian Age, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cities of Vampires	Regina Blake and her vampire mistress Victoria head for France to seek clues to the fate of Regina's mother, Emma.  The latter has been embraced as part of a murky Tremere plot to bring down the Prince of London.  Even as their quest evolves, events in London threaten to explode.  Lord Blake, Emma's husband, and Malcolm Seward, Regina's fianc&eacute;e tear through the dark side of the city seeking traces of their loved ones, but despite causing considerable turmoil seem condemned to be always one step behind.<br />Other players have entered the fray as well.  Beckett, a scholarly vampire with a compulsive interest in vampiric history, and Hesha Ruhadze, a mysterious Settite with his own agenda, temporarily join forces to try to discover answers, or perhaps to carry out an act or revenge, or to enlighten a goddess.  On the human side Othman al-Masri seeks out the Society of Leopold, heir to the Inquisition and hunters of vampires.<br />Regina seems to make waves wherever she goes in vampire society.  Although nothing more tha Victoria's prot&eacute;g&eacute;e, turmoil seems to follow her.  In A Morbid Initiation she witnessed the poisoning of Mithras, ruler of the London vampires.  Now the pattern continues, for while Victoria copes with the intricacies of vampire politics, Regina is less patient, whether she is dealing with Francois Villon, the Prince of Paris, or anatole, the mad vampire priest whose abbey is hidden behind the gates of a prison.<br />Phillippe Boulle continues to weave an intricate plot without ever revealing the real goal.  There is something underlying all this moves and counter-moves, but it always seems to lie just beyond out grasp.  Just as Lord Blake never seems able to catch up with his daughter.  The Madness of Priests add detail and texture to the story, but keeps a tight hold on its secrets.  Detail tends to be the devil in white Wolf publications, since much of what is in the books will feed back into the game world on which they are based.<br />This hunger for information can slow down the flow of action excessively, but Boulle manages to avoid this fault, dancing on the edge of overwriting, but never quite stepping over.  Instead, the finely drawn descriptions of Victorian London and post-Napoleonic Paris increase the reader's enjoyment.  Welcome to the Masquerade...nger for information can slow down the flow of action excessively, but Boulle manages to avoid this fault, dancing on the edge of overwriting, but never quite stepping over.  Instead, the finely drawn descriptions of Victorian London and post-Napoleonic Paris increase the reader's enjoyment.  Welcome to the Masquerade...	2004-07-19
590426:US	53082946	R28345140UJQOY	1561580171	466168078	Fine Wood working Design Book Six: 266 Photographs of the Best Work in Wood	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Short Course In Fine Workmanship	There is a considerable difference between the following plans part woodworking and the artistic design part.  Like anyone else who enjoys the thrumming sounds of a happy workshop, following plans is a soothing process with a satisfying result.  But getting an idea into my head (and then trying to make it real) is more frustrating - my life lacks the spare 'dream time' needed.  As a substitute, I like to look at the work of others. And Taunton Press's series of design books is a fine place to start.<br />Each book is like a juried shop with some 10,000 original entries.  There are sections on cabinets, chairs and benches, tables, boxes &amp; chests, desks, beds &amp; furnishings, sculpture &amp; carvings, turnings, and accessories &amp; musical instruments.  Some 266 individual pieces are presented.<br />The range of style and approach presented is wide.  Everything from the ultra-modern to the ultra-traditional, each and every one of them marvels of craftsmanship.  Some of my favorites are the cover shot of two chairs 'relaxing' on a table (Richard L. Ford, Jr.),  a meticulous Arts &amp; Crafts derives Gent's  chest (Dan Mosheim), and the totally outr&eacute; chest as a caricature of a stove (Kimberly Keizer).  This issue includes a long essay by Scott Landis on apprenticeship that made me wish I could start out all over again.	2004-07-14
591229:US	53082946	R13AQ63MDHQM8M	0689869533	254174575	Wicked Willow II: Shattered Twilight (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Let She Who Is Sinless Cast The First Spell	After the devastating events of the first volume of this series one would expect to find that someone, either in Willow's coven or the Scooby Gang would realize that head on conflict wasn't going to work.  Giles' dispersal spell managed to totally disappear to coven members and drive another insane.  And Willow has lost what little trust the coven had in her.  Despite this disaster, both sides get ready to square off.  Willow rebuilds the coven and uses Riley's spirit to animate a golem, hell bent on her quest to restore Tara to life.  Giles continues to look for a bigger, better spell - something that will do less mayhem.  Of course, nothing works out as suspected and damage and casualties mount.<br />One of the things I found particularly interesting is that Buffy and the Scoobies actually don't understand what Willow is trying to do, and have managed to cause far more destruction than Willow would have done on her own.  This dichotomy between an evil Willow who is really only seeking to create life, and the Buffy team keeps building.  This keeps Willow a believable and almost sympathetic character while forcing us to look at Buffy, Giles, and company in a different way.  The ending of this volume is particularly touching.<br />This focus on the moral dilemmas of the characters is unusual in a Buffyverse book.  Willow, Buffy and Giles all must deal with difficult decisions, and their actions do not necessarily work for the best.  As much as the publisher paints this as a Wicked Willow series, it is considerably more than that.  No one is totally innocent, everyone makes a dreadful mistake or two.  However, even as the interior dialog gathers momentum, the pacing seems to slow a bit.  Shattered Twilight seems to get stuck in the pattern of attack and withdraw that began in The Darkening.<br />Still, while I experienced moments of tedium in the reading, the over all effect was compelling enough to hold my interest.  Yvonne Navarro's effort has redefined Willow's character within an understandable framework.  She certainly isn't the only person I know who it the thought they could undo a tragedy wouldn't do everything in their power to do exactly that.  At the moment crosses over the line towards the inhuman, she offers proff of her real human depths.  While this new, complex Willow will bother some fans, I think it's an illuminating development in one of my favorite characters.aracter within an understandable framework.  She certainly isn't the only person I know who it the thought they could undo a tragedy wouldn't do everything in their power to do exactly that.  At the moment crosses over the line towards the inhuman, she offers proff of her real human depths.  While this new, complex Willow will bother some fans, I think it's an illuminating development in one of my favorite characters.	2004-07-13
593473:US	53082946	R6BFWVLRR3HUQ	1892529157	228927858	A Guide to Useful Woods of the World	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Useful Woods, Useful Guide	After listening to me grumble that I couldn't always tell what exotic aw lumber looks like when finished, the shop manager told me to get a copy of this book.  Actually, he ordered me to get the book, since, like most novices, I pestered him incessantly.  As usual, he was right.<br />The meat of this book is a set of 279 two-page descriptions of each wood.  The information inclides scientific name, family, distribution, a description of the tree, a description of the lumber, seasoning information, durability, workability, possible uses, supply availability, a photomicrograph, and a photo of the naturally finished wood.  Quite a lot more than the average craftsperson might need, but enough to make this a useful volume to a wide audience.<br />Indexes are provided by common names, family name, and scientific name.  I wish their were a few more permutations (I would have liked a listing by geographical sources, having once wanted to know what the native Japanese wodds were.  But really, the book has proved most useful as a reference when I am wondering through an exotic wood stash, or evaluating a particular wood for one purpose or another.<br />It's a very plain spoken volume - just a presentation of the facts in an easily accessible format.  An appendix I found particularly interesting discussed wood toxicity (walnut dust drives me crazy).  Unfortunately it really only brushes the surface.  If you stick to only a few known woods, this book isn't for you, but if you like to explore possibilities than you will indeed find this a useful volume.	2004-07-12
593724:US	53082946	R3AKR0L8KFX0YI	1588468283	396028751	A Morbid Initiation (Vampire: Victorian Age, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Delirium Tremere	It's been quite a while since I've ventured back into White Wolf's Vampire: The Masquerade series.  After completing the original clan series and the grail trilogy I was beginning to feel that the publisher had worked this vein (sorry about the pun) as much as it could be, and that the element of repetition was getting noticeable.  At the result of several recommendations I decided to give this particular series a try.  After all, vampires and Victorian is where is all started.<br />Phillippe Boulle is a surprisingly good author, which partially explains his position as managing editor at White Wolf Fiction.  He manages to skirt the pitfalls of the Masquerade genre while presenting the story of Regina Blake, recently back from a long residence in Egypt with her father James, Lord Blake.  In a hectic series of events, Regina's mother Emma dies under suspect circumstances and Regina discovers that a series of secrets that catapults her into the vampire society of Victorian London.<br />Fortunately, Victoria Ash, who at one time knew her mother, steps in to make Regina her prot?g? in a society that forgives nothing and is quick to punish mistakes.  Now Regina sets out to discover what has happened to her mother, who has disappeared from her tomb.  In the meantime, Lieutenant Malcolm Seward, her estranged lover, is becoming enmeshed in a secret military society that also seems to be entangled in the vampire's world.<br />So far, the story is focused on the machinations of the Tremere clan, which had fallen out of favor under the Prince of London, who had disappeared, leaving a regent in his place.  His return offers a new opportunity for maneuvering and mayhem.  At present the political element (which is the part I like least about Masquerade novels) is being kept at bay.  Instead the primary focuses are Regina, Malcolm, and Victoria.  For some reason the presence of a handful of humans (Victoria is a vampire) seems to enliven vampire stories, which otherwise tend to turn into caricatures of themselves.  While not totally engaging, this turned out to be an interesting first volume, and I expect to complete the series.rn into caricatures of themselves.  While not totally engaging, this turned out to be an interesting first volume, and I expect to complete the series.	2004-07-12
594477:US	53082946	R14DYIE7QZPIV4	0451458583	483135927	Threshold	Books	5	9	14	N	Y	Closed Passages and Ancient Secrets	I've remarked in at least one other review that Caitlin Kiernan has gone a long way to establishing herself as a bright light in the firmament of horror writers.  Kiernan has four novels to her credit, the first of which has only appeared as a limited edition.  Threshold, which is her second commercial novel (and the first involving Chance Matthews and Deacon Silvey), is one of those brilliant exercises that leaves the reader stunned and hungry for more.<br />This is Chance's novel, as Red Moon Rising is Deacon's.  A run of deaths among Chance's friends and family have left her numb and at sea.  In the middle of the sorrow two things happen to her  In searching through her house, she discovers a box of her grandmother's research materials - paleontological artifacts, a diary, and a vial with the preserved body of a curious insect that bears an uncanny resemblance to a trilobyte.  All are drawn from the same local mine.  The second event is the appearance of Dancy Flammarion a monster hunter who knows more than she possibly could.<br />In between her explorations of the lives and relationships of Chance, her ex-boyfriend Deacon, his current lover Sadie Jasper, and Dancy, Kiernan lets us have glimpses of an ancient horror that has come to see them as a threat.  It manifests in many forms - a fellow bus rider, the ghosts of friends, eerie animals that live in the darkest corners, and something thoughtlessly evil that lurks in the depths of the mines.<br />Once touch at a time the horror builds subtly for the most part, until the reader experiences a sense of free form unease.  Kiernan works with small crises rather than apocalypses, but the potential is always just under the surface.  And then the writer finds a finish that is both intrnsely satisfying and deeply mysterious.<br />This is a superbly crafted book.  Kiernan's habit of choosing the lost and the hopeless as main characters will invite comparisons will Poppy Brite, but she is really a different sort of writer.  And in my minds eye, possible the better of the two.  She draws from sources as diverse as Lovecraft and Beowulf without a blink, and manages to keep the concoction marching to the satisfaction of the reader.  Read it, and prepare for a nightmare or two.ter.  And in my minds eye, possible the better of the two.  She draws from sources as diverse as Lovecraft and Beowulf without a blink, and manages to keep the concoction marching to the satisfaction of the reader.  Read it, and prepare for a nightmare or two.	2004-07-11
599777:US	53082946	R3DAYEL58WE75P	0060572965	661385357	Dead Witch Walking	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	When A Kiss Is Just A Bite	Kim Harrison's debut novel about a young police witch who decides to strike out as an independent, comes as something of a pleasant surprise.  Certainly, there has been no lack of tough magician/detective stories in the years since Laurell K Hamilton, Jim Butcher, and some of the urban fantasy crowd moved into the genre.  Detective fantasy is a small niche at best, but the overall quality has been good, with only a few wobbles lately.  But just when I thought the genre dead, along comes this effort, and the story shows much promise and only a few imperfections.<br />I'm not going to pretend that the book's premises are spectacularly original.  Harrison's world is one where magic and the occult were always there, but until a bio-engineered virus wiped out half of the 'normal' folk, the occult world stayed carefully hidden.  Now it is a world divided - in this case the normals live in Cincinnati proper and the 'spooks' live across the river in The Hollows.  The Hollows is part of the Interland, where technology and medicine are suspect and you never know when you might get hit with a bad spell.  Interland Security spends its time hunting down ill-behaved vampires, werewolves who shift out of season, and black magicians.<br />Rachel Morgan is a police runner down on her luck and not getting a lot of respect from her management.  She's been relegated to second-rate assignments and only a down and out pixie will work at her side.  Instructed to bring in a blackmailing leprechaun she gets offered three wishes and decides it's time to go independent.  To her surprise Ivy, an unturned Vampire and expert runner, and Jenks, a pixie with a strong case of obnoxious attitude, decide to join her.  This infuriates Rachel's ex-boss, and he takes out a contract on her.  The red-headed witch will spend most of this story trying to stay alive long enough to buy off the contract.<br />Harrison turns out to be an effective writer who can out a plot together and build dialog.  Plus she has the skill to build a believable urban fantasy world.  The novel's biggest weakness is in character design.  For all that Rachel is supposed to be a strong enough character to walk out on a dangerous organization, she is surprising squeamish, tends to panic, and it totally terrified that Ivy will bite or kiss her (or bit and kiss her).  Ivy is an ex-blood addict who has a surprising inability to say no considering that she is a top operative.  Jenks, however, is fairly normal for a pixie.<br />Since Harrison plays all these quirks for comic effect they work well enough for readability.  It's hard to predict how well everything will hold together over a series.  If the story lines start to get serious then Rachel will be in danger of becoming an Anita Blake clone.  If Harrison can keep to lighter weight sarcastic humor without overworking the jokes then we may have a hit on our hands.  In the meantime this volume is a pleasant way to spend a few days reading.has the skill to build a believable urban fantasy world.  The novel's biggest weakness is in character design.  For all that Rachel is supposed to be a strong enough character to walk out on a dangerous organization, she is surprising squeamish, tends to panic, and it totally terrified that Ivy will bite or kiss her (or bit and kiss her).  Ivy is an ex-blood addict who has a surprising inability to say no considering that she is a top operative.  Jenks, however, is fairly normal for a pixie.  <br />Since Harrison plays all these quirks for comic effect they work well enough for readability.  It's hard to predict how well everything will hold together over a series.  If the story lines start to get serious then Rachel will be in danger of becoming an Anita Blake clone.  If Harrison can keep to lighter weight sarcastic humor without overworking the jokes then we may have a hit on our hands.  In the meantime this volume is a pleasant way to spend a few days reading.	2004-07-07
600894:US	53082946	R2S1X8TEM1WOMB	1892836149	897830927	More Shop Drawings for Craftsman Furniture: 30 Stickley Designs for Every Room in the Home (Shop Drawings series)	Books	3	29	36	N	N	Plans Without Frills	By happenstance I came across this volume before encountering the first volume.  While it provides the minimum basic information to build some 30 pieces of furniture based on Arts &amp; Crafts designs it failed to inspire me to purchase the first volume.  The primary reason is that while the information provided is good, there is nothing to inspire me to build or adapt any particular piece.  Why?  Because Robert Lang relies a bit too much on my imagination.<br />I'm a bit of a free spirit in the wood shop.  I like combining features I like, adding a few twists of my own, and taking a few, judicious risks.  Lang seems to have unerringly chosen the simplest, and often the dullest work of a carpentry movement that was anything but simple and dull.  Perhaps this should have been titled 'Craftsman Furniture for Beginners.'  It would have captured the approach more accurately.<br />This is a book that would have been improved immensely by the inclusion of a handful of glossy pages with photographs of the completed designs.  Something to fire the imagination and make a few of the mysteries a bit clearer.  A few pieces (all china cabinets oddly enough) exhibit some of the grace of Stickley's best work.  But other than some details of construction, there are other sources that capture the essence and style better.<br />That being said, it is a good start for a beginner who wants to get some straightforward work underway before tackling the complexities of which Arts &amp; Crafts work is capable.  But I would still recommend spending the time perusing a few coffee table books of the movement.  Arts &amp; Crafts wasn't just a style, it was an aesthetic movement that continues to have an influence on modern furniture making.	2004-07-06
603043:US	53082946	R3JA4RS0FR4L1N	068986700X	198249136	Apocalypse Memories (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Sheep Bitten	Willow is back from England, fully recovered from her magical flameout and ready to start fresh with her friend.  Well, almost ready.  After nearly succumbing to the lure of black magic, Willow is terrified of her own powers, fearful that, if she casts a spell it might go terribly awry.  Or worse, she might lose herself again.  Zander comes to the rescue by conceiving of a magic desensitization program that has Willow trying to levitate pencils - one tiny step at a time.<br />In the meantime, Buffy has her regular chores and patrols to make, Dawn continues to be everyone's favorite headache, and Anya is determined to make everyone just as grumpy as she is.  Things would be almost normal except for the sudden, inexplicable appearance of a hunky angel, who cheerfully sets about ending the world.  No doubt you are thinking 'yet another apocalypse for Buffy to avert,' but this time it's not a bad apocalypse, it's the real one.  The powers of good have seen a sign, and this time it is for keeps.<br />While Giles tries to decide whether resistance is appropriate, Buffy decides that she isn't ready to throw in the towel.  Unfortunately, Michael (our angel), is not only invincible but an all around nice guy as well.  Buffy would really like him if he didn't keep apologizing as he unleashes on disaster after another.  Willow tries to gather the courage to cast a spell that might stop the apocalypse, which might just undo the world in the process.  On a lighter note, Spike and Anya develop really bad cases of acne.<br />The premise of the book gives each of the characters a moment to consider what is truly meaningful to them.  What matters when faced with with what seems to be the real end of it all.  Spike's plight, that he is still numbered among the damned despite having regained his soul touches Buffy deeply, as she realizes that all of her friends are dear to her, even the irritating ones.<br />The flaw of the book is that Burns and Metz have taken an interesting idea and made it into a lightweight confection.  For all that they focus on characters rather than plot details, the story never really brings the horror of the situation home to the reader.  Instead you get an hour or two of light reading where Spike, Anya, and Zander get all the good lines (Michael has a few as well).  The book is an entertaining change of pace with a novel plot, but never quite reaches it's full potential.d made it into a lightweight confection.  For all that they focus on characters rather than plot details, the story never really brings the horror of the situation home to the reader.  Instead you get an hour or two of light reading where Spike, Anya, and Zander get all the good lines (Michael has a few as well).  The book is an entertaining change of pace with a novel plot, but never quite reaches it's full potential.	2004-07-05
604271:US	53082946	R3G8R3HG9QLJ5O	1400041732	445580554	Down Here: A Burke Novel	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	All In The Family	Andrew Vachss' stories about Burke have covered a lot of ground since I started reading them.  The early novels were deeply tortured, tales of an anti-hero scarred down to his core by a legacy of pain and abuse.  Surrounding Burke are the members of his 'true' family.  All children of the 'secret,' all people driven to living on the fringes of society, all finding meaning in their shared companionship.  In this world Burke is both feared and loved.  Loved for his fierce loyalty to those he shares a bond with, and fired by those who have made abuse a landmark in the corridors of darkness.<br />Burke is inteliigent, but not an intellect.  He has friends like the Professor and the Mole for that.  But he is street smart to the nth degree.  While no longer the automatically violent character of the early novels, Burke has no qualms about the use of violence when his version of justice requires it.  Down Here is a novel of complex interlocking plots, but the edge is still there as he searches for a way to unravel a plot to frame Wolfe, a woman he has long admired, for shooting a serial rapist she once convicted, who has now gone free on a technicality.<br />The more Burke digs into the accusations and the stonewalling by the district attorney's office, the clearer it becomes that there is more involved than the accusations against Wolfe.  The FBI has become involved, as well as white supremacists and terrorists.  Wolfe is a pawn in a deeper game.  And while she fights to beat the case against her, it is not all that clear that she welcomes Burke's involvement.<br />To me, Down Here marks Burke's real return to the city and his friends.  Previously, right after he returned from his 'trip' to the West Coast, his membership in New York's underground felt awkward and stilted.  The entire cycle from the attempt on his life and his revenge was never entirely satisfactory, but with this story we are completely immersed again into Burke's milieu, moving through the edges of the shadow city, meeting a caste of characters that at once familiar and strange.<br />Vachss' writing is at a peak.  We are used to a lot of action in a Burke story, and Down Here is a change of pace, focused on Burke's interior development and the intricacies of the plot development.  In a way this is more like a police procedural than the pure action and suspense that Vachss often uses.  With many volumes written in this series, the characters are tightly defined.  While the story is completely readable on its own the newcomer will benefit from taking the time to read several of the earlier novels.hadow city, meeting a caste of characters that at once familiar and strange.<br />Vachss' writing is at a peak.  We are used to a lot of action in a Burke story, and Down Here is a change of pace, focused on Burke's interior development and the intricacies of the plot development.  In a way this is more like a police procedural than the pure action and suspense that Vachss often uses.  With many volumes written in this series, the characters are tightly defined.  While the story is completely readable on its own the newcomer will benefit from taking the time to read several of the earlier novels.	2004-07-04
606965:US	53082946	R33SPH8JOH6G73	1929090250	942073252	The Vampire Dahlia: Death Is A Kiss	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	&quot;Blood smells sweet...  This is love.&quot;	Ranan, a handsome vampire flees his nest.  Wounded and tired he comes upon young Dahlia and the find love.  For a time they live as Ranan paints her repeatedly.  But revenge among vampires never dies, and eventually he is found and sentenced to grow old.  Now Dahlia, a vampire whose spirit is trapped in her lovers painting waits forever, waits until her lover is reborn and returns to her.<br />Narumi Kakinuchi, who is the artist behind Vampire Yui, and co-creator of Vampire Princess Miyu (with Toshihiro Hirano) returns to the genre to spin a tale of a quest that, like an ill wind, seems to blow no one any good.  Dahlia is back in Japan, living alone and attending a high school where she has met someone who bears an uncanny resemblance to Ranan.  Unlike Miyu, Dahlia has no compunction about killing and the story plays in parallel with Salome - the school play for this year.  In the next story arc, Dahlia enters a conflict with another vampire one which no one can win.<br />From a human standpoint Dahlia is morally ambiguous, both a killer and a desperately lonely woman who searches for her lover.  She is the quintessential vampire, whose nature is never to change, locked in a pattern.  And if truth be told, she has no desire to be anything else.  She is still who she was at the moment she was changed.  Only Kanan's reappearance can break the cycle.<br />The story is told in asides and flashbacks, following a zigzag path through time that can be perplexing, especially since Kakinouchi's style is also prone to wonder around the page.  This is not one of those orderly, frame-by-frame manga.  There is also an element of sloppiness due to the way Iron Cat entertainment decided to squeeze the pages into this format.<br />This is not, at present, a multi-volume series, but the compilation of a six issue special run.  Whether that will change remains to be seen, but treat is as something unique for now.  I found it quite interesting, very much a deviation from the mainstream of Miyu and Yui.  The change in atmosphere and the focus on the interior life of the vampire make it worth reading.of Miyu and Yui.  The change in atmosphere and the focus on the interior life of the vampire make it worth reading.	2004-07-01
609605:US	53082946	RS4PSHGG31RNW	1561583030	496070918	Bookcases: Eleven Outstanding Projects by America's Best Craftsmen (Step-By-Step Furniture)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Shelves, Wonderful Shelves	Bookcases are a reviewer's friend.  Or rather, they are until they take over the house.  Eventually you realize that you have more invested in cheap assemble-it-yourself furniture than you do in that Volvo in the garage.  If you have pretensions at being handy, there will come a time when you start dreaming of nifty cabinets and lawyers bookcases - all make in that shop in the basement.  And that's the time to reach for Niall Barrett's book.<br />Think there's nothing to it?  Barrett starts right out with a bit of bookcase theory.  Finally you will understand why those shelves keep sagging and how to keep it from happening.  The author's style is straightforward, right to-the-point, but it is clear from the beginning that Barrett loves making bookcases, and loves what goes in them as well.<br />Eleven designs are presented, from a simple, short bookcase to and exotic formal sideboard bookcase.  Other than the sideboard, which is a bit over designed for my tastes I found all of the bookcases attractive, graceful, and functional.  Barrett pays most of his attention one the details of building with only elementary suggestions about finishing.<br />As has been mentioned earlier, he uses shop tools to simplify the work.  Although there is no reason that some of the simpler designs couldn't be done with basic hand tools or handyman's power tools.  Probably a router and a good rotary saw (small table saw or hand tool) are minimum requirements.	2004-06-30
617551:US	53082946	R2DABNMSB0K3OY	0451459539	950963119	Thief of Lives (Noble Dead)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Biting Trauma	When I read Dhampir, I wasn't sure if it was intended for an extended run or not, but here is the next volume of what now appears to be at least a trilogy.  This is good news, as the Hendee's have managed to create two strong characters and put together a plot that still maintains it's mystery and draw at the end of two volumes.  Magiere is a dhampir, daughter of a vampire and a human.  At the end of the previous volume (in which a vampire killing scam suddenly turns out to be serious) she discovers that dhampirs have significant and deadly powers of their own.  Her companion is half-elven Leesil who also hides many mysteries.  Trained as an assassin, Leesil was happily pursuing a life of crime until he met Magiere.  Just for a moment, at the beginning of Thief of Lives, the couple has settled into the routine of running an inn.<br />Nothing lasts, of course, and in short order Magiere, Leesil, and Chap the wonder dog have been maneuvered into heading for the capital city of Bela to hunt the vampire responsible for killing the daughter of a prominent councilman.  They arrive to discover that they are not particularly welcome - even less so when they announce that the killer may be one of the privileged classes.  And instead of one vampire there are two, or maybe three, or ...  Add a dog with unexpected skills, another elven killer, some mages, and a return visit by Welstiel Massing (who has hidden agendas of his own) and you have a good picture of what life is like for Leesil and Magiere.<br />Not counting their own relationship, which has become clouded by their discovery that being a dhampir is more than having a funny ethnic designation.  The events of the previous volume (which include Leesil feeding Magiere his own blood to save her life) have triggered a series of psychological and physical changes in the young woman.  Not feeling in control of herself, Magiere has taken to avoiding Leesil out of fear that she might hurt him.  This has put their normally close alliance is under a strain and has left both of them prone to emotional mistakes.<br />The Hendee's manage this complex set of factors like long time writers, and the result is an active, flowing plot with a wealth of character and setting detail.  While revealing a lot, they always manage to hold enough back so that there is always something new on the horizon.  While this is a Gothic world, with Gothic vampires, there is a fresh newness to the plot that defies the stereotypes it works with.  The book stands fairly well on its own, generally explaining what it inherits from the previous volume, but you are best of starting from the beginning - if for no other reason than the first book being equally enjoyable.alliance is under a strain and has left both of them prone to emotional mistakes.<br />The Hendee's manage this complex set of factors like long time writers, and the result is an active, flowing plot with a wealth of character and setting detail.  While revealing a lot, they always manage to hold enough back so that there is always something new on the horizon.  While this is a Gothic world, with Gothic vampires, there is a fresh newness to the plot that defies the stereotypes it works with.  The book stands fairly well on its own, generally explaining what it inherits from the previous volume, but you are best of starting from the beginning - if for no other reason than the first book being equally enjoyable.	2004-06-24
618201:US	53082946	RHKIIC91AFUFF	0671041479	494963491	Close to the Ground (Angel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Growing Old Gracelessly	Somewhere in Ireland an old mage is getting older faster.  He is in danger of dying before he can complete his he plans to resurrect Balor of the Baleful Eye and conquer the world.  Naturally, the solution is to move to Los Angeles and make life miserable for Angel.  In the meantime Doyle has a flash, and Angel finds himself defending Karinna Willitts, a beautiful young woman who happens to be the daughter of Hollywood's most powerful studio head.  Trust Cordy to immediately parlay this fortunate moment into a studio job, while Angel is offered the opportunity to become Karinna's permanent guardian.  The young lady has a nose for trouble, and loves to be in it.<br />As Mordractus (the mage) begins to weave his plans to turn the unsuspecting vampire into a health food drink there is action on another front entirely.  Kate Lockley is hunting a group of bank robbers who make a habit of tunneling into vaults and popping up with the money.  Only this last time they popped up the killed three people who happened to be in their way.  In other words, business is as usual in the city of stars.<br /> Jeff Mariotte is a change of pace in this fourth volume in the Angel novel series.  For a change, the story stays in the present, and the plot is full of complex twists and turns.  Mariotte is good at developing characters through action, which means that those characters who play big roles (Angel, Kate, and Cordelia) develop considerable dimensionality.  The walk-on parts (and in this case Doyle doesn't get much of a part to play) are always a bit sketchy, but Mariotte's pace is fast enough that it never really becomes an issue.<br />Cordy's adventures in studio land are a characteristic satire of the countless facades of Hollywood life, as Mariotte works to build a cynical view of the industry that, after all, has provided some of cynicism's greatest moments.  One has to sympathize with Cordy, who would either like to get paid or become famous, and never seems to manage to accomplish either.  Angel, wizards, demons, thieves, Hollywood, and the FBI - who could ask for anything more?mplish either.  Angel, wizards, demons, thieves, Hollywood, and the FBI - who could ask for anything more?	2004-06-23
619992:US	53082946	R113RYQI8OBJX4	1561584312	927411248	The Custom Furniture Sourcebook: A  Guide to 125 Craftsmen	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Simply Stunning	This is the perfect present to give someone who thinks that the art of making fine furniture is a dying one.  In it are representative works by 125 of our finest craftsfolk.  Here you will find artists who extends styles which have become timeless without ever being imitative (Robert Stevenson and Jeffrey Greene), woodworkers who are intent in opening new avenues of creativity (Tom Hobgood and Christoph Neander), and every variation in between.  And each and every one is a master of the craft.<br />In a sense, this is a puff book - created to facilitate the contact between the artist and the knowledgeable consumer.  Each furniture maker gets two beautifully printed pages to present their work and their ideas.  Not very much room, when you think of it.  Reading the book is like spending a day at the very best custom furniture show in the world.  And like a good show, the submissions were juried by a panel to ensure that promotional or not, the contents were the genuine article.<br />I bought the book to look for some ideas for furniture - not to buy, but to build.  If I look too long I get a bit depressed as I realize how much more skilled these makers are than I am.  But it is an inspiration, and, eventually, it helped me make what I wanted to do a bit finer in concept.  If you love to look at fine things, or are one of the fortunate who can look forward to having them, this book is a homage to artistry that is a combination of great imagination and the skill to execute it.	2004-06-22
623819:US	53082946	RA3C6BKAP9EJX	0312287984	528449778	Rashomon Gate: A Mystery of Ancient Japan	Books	5	36	39	N	Y	The Dead Wait At Rashomon...	When it comes to Japanese detective stories tailored for Western readers, Laura Joh Rowland leaps to mind.  Here stories of Sano Ichiro, set during the 17th Century Shogunate have become a staple of what is admittedly, a niche genre.  Now a new writer, I. J. Parker has appeared (her short story, &quot;Akitada's First Case,&quot; was published in 1999. and promptly won a Shamus award).  Parker's stories feature Sagawara Akitada, a low ranking noble in the service the Emperor in Heian Kyo (Kyoto).  The time is 600 years earlier than Rowland's books, and the culture immensely different.  Japan was still heavily influenced by all things Chinese, and still forming its own social and political architectures.<br />As Parker ably demonstrates in Akitada's first adventure, there was nothing primitive about the Heian period, regardless of its antiquity.  Akitada, whose career in the Japanese bureaucracy has come to a standstill, accepts a request from an old mentor to come to the University as an instructor while investigating an attempt at blackmail.  Akitada and his servant, Tora, find themselves enmeshed in a web of plots including the murder (or transcendence) of a prince of the realm, the strangling of a joy house musician, and a series of deaths at the University itself.<br />Both Akitada and Tora have their own romantic interests, which are fleshed out by Parker's careful sense of detail and character development.  There are countless things that can be gotten wrong in historical fiction of this sort, but Parker manages to avoid all but trivial errors.  Partially because she does not delve into the politics of the times the way Rowland does.  Akitada is not a 'player' in the same class as Sano Ichiro.  His frustrated ambition keeps him on the outer edges of polite society.<br />This is an excellent first novel.  Indeed, the only clue that it is a first novel is that the publicity says it is a first novel.  The writing lacks the uneasiness that often mars early efforts.  There is every reason to look forward to the next volume in what is giving all the signs of a successful series.There is every reason to look forward to the next volume in what is giving all the signs of a successful series.	2004-06-19
624758:US	53082946	R1YB5781GDKEC0	0806994185	908511406	Building Arts & Crafts Furniture: 25 Authentic Projects That Celebrate Simple Elegance & Timeless Design	Books	5	5	5	N	N	When Form Follows Function	For some inexplicable reason my mind sees a parallel between Japanese furniture craftsmanship of the past 1000 years or so and the work coming out of the Arts &amp; Crafts Movement the flourished between 1870 and 1920 in Europe and the USA.  Despite the fact that I know full well that they differ in many core esthetic principles.  Perhaps it is the preference for simple, geometric lines and grace, or the emphasis on workmanship rather than decoration, or the desire to create beauty in the simplest of things.  But there is a connection, and as someone who has become focused on redesigning a home, that connection is all that is needed.<br />Paul Kemner and Peggy Zdila have written a book designs to satisfy both those interested in the Movement itself, and those who would just as soon be a-building.  The first half of this beautifully made paperback discusses the influences of William Morris and Gustav Stickley, both as philosophers, designers, and craftsmen.  Full of photographs of some fine representative pieces and quotes.  From that point the discussion shifts to the means - tools, techniques, and materials.  Last is some 25 projects, large and small, that are opportunities to discover what it is all about first hand.<br />The writing style is patient and clear.  Unfortunately, neither writer is the sort to spellbind a reader.  While I found the discussion useful and worthwhile, Kemner and Zdila never quite breathe life into the more esoteric parts of the discussion.  As another review has pointed out, the plans are well done, but one must read them thoroughly in order to avoid discovering too late that something got left out of the bill of materials.  For the most part, though, all the information needed is present.<br />A designer with a sense of humor once remarked that more people are interesting in movement Arts &amp; Crafts since its revival than ever were during its heyday.  I like to think that this has as much to do with the values expressed by the movement as much as it does with the satisfactions of its beauty.  Whatever the reason, this is a fine volume to start up a lasting interest.t as much as it does with the satisfactions of its beauty.  Whatever the reason, this is a fine volume to start up a lasting interest.	2004-06-18
627050:US	53082946	RCJZE56R4I0GE	0451459407	962252105	Death Masks (Dresden Files)	Books	5	41	45	N	Y	Shroud Thinking	Shroud Remarks<br />I only recently noticed that I had missed the release of the latest in Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden series, and quickly moved to correct my error.  Dresden is a wizard after my own heart - trying to make a living in modern Chicago, and a bit too honest to do anything but scrape by.  Armed with a wand, a few special charms, and a flower covered ancient Volkswagen Beetle, Harry is always ready to take on a task completely beyond his capabilities.<br />This time he has his choice of menaces.  Having triggered a war between the Wizard's Council and the vampire's Red Court in the last volume, Harry continues to be in desperate straights.  Duke Ortega of the Red Court has proposed a way to end the war - a duel between him and Harry.  Needless to say, Ortega has no intention of losing, and Harry will need more that a few incantations to survive.<br />More of a surprise, though, is the appearance of Father Vincent, a papal agent with an assignment for Harry.  The Shroud of Turin has vanished - stolen and brought to the USA and, while they have more than an inkling of who the thief was, it will take Harry to track it down.  The bad news is that the Shroud attracts all kind of attention, from everyone from mafia bosses to fallen angels.  And they all want Harry's skin.  The good news is that Harry will get paid for the work, and the rent is due.  Or he will die in the attempt and won't need to pay rent ever again.<br />There is more. Harry's ex-girlfriend and recovering vampire snack Susan is back in town, the police are looking for a murderer who collects parts, and the Knights of the Cross are there to lend a hand.  Total madness wherever you look, and Harry is in the middle of it, bad attitude and all.<br />Butcher has created a series that is a refreshing change from the usual pseudo-medieval magick tale.  Harry is up to date, listens to good music, and, when he can afford it, even dresses fairly well.  Or he would if people would stop stealing his clothes.  He alternates between wisecracks, a love for money, and a set of ethics that keep getting in his way.  And you can't help but like a guy whose closest friend lives in a skull.<br />Even though there is continuity between the five books in the series, each still can stand on its own.  It you like fantasy but are tired of the usual enchanted princess genre try a dip in the Dresden files.  You won't be disappointed.hes.  He alternates between wisecracks, a love for money, and a set of ethics that keep getting in his way.  And you can't help but like a guy whose closest friend lives in a skull.<br />Even though there is continuity between the five books in the series, each still can stand on its own.  It you like fantasy but are tired of the usual enchanted princess genre try a dip in the Dresden files.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-06-16
628325:US	53082946	R6S9KAFAY9AA9	0517560801	449124348	Japanese Style	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Playing In the Shadows	In another book I recently read of the importance of shadows in the domestic architecture of Japan.  Openings aren't created simply to provide light, they are used t leave part of a room dim and private and to provide illumination only exactly where needed.  The photography in Japanese Style (by Gilles de Chabaneix) captures this beautifully, even as the writers focus on other possible threads.<br />Any discussion of the intimate side of Japanese architecture and space use will spend a lot of time on the vast dichotomy between modern Japan and the style most Americans are familiar with - the traditional housing that represents over a millennia of incremental design.  This book follows the same theme, moving from rural manor to a tiny Tokyo apartment, from beautifully carved wood to the unique character of poured concrete.<br />The more you look through this book, the more you realize that Japanese designers have managed to bridge the time gap rather than making an abrupt leap.  Even though the change appears to be radical, the underlying sensitivity to arrangement and a knack for disciplined minimalism have been there all along.  One glance at the photographs of a four level home build on a 320 square foot lot is all you need to realize that there is an unerring understanding of harmony and purpose.  Style becomes a two way street - Tokyo has evolved as an expression of the Japanese esthetic, at the same time as the conditions of the city have shaped the artistic experience.<br />Buy this book for the photographs.  For the most part the writers contribute little, other than providing some context.  But De Chabeneix has an intuitive sense of how to see what the Japanese resident is seeing.  Often the shots are magical, different angles of the same room look so difference that it is only on the second or third glance that you realize you are looking at the same room serving multiple purposes.  As a result, you capture what it takes to make the Japanese Style happen anywhere, with any materials.ywhere, with any materials.	2004-06-15
629675:US	53082946	RI34NVMM0GPRR	0671041460	232966106	Redemption (Angel)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Acting the Part	Whitney Tyler has a bit of a problem.  She has gotten so good at playing the vampire in Dark Midnight (her TV show) that they has more people trying to stake her then there are chasing Angel.  As the problem escalates from a few crackpots to a serious team of assassins intent on major damage, Whitney's producer panics and interrupts Angel's usual vampire slaying to ask him to help keep Whitney's heart in one piece.<br />Intertwined with Whitney's story is Angel's memory of Moira O'Braonain, who he first encountered in his Angelus the Vampire Pirate days (bet you didn't know that Angel used to swashbuckle a bit).  While taking over a ship, Angelus and Darla run into Moira, a deadly fighter who Angel kills.  And then has to kill several times over.  Whitney and Moira are nearly identical, but it will take time for Angel to work out the connection, and people around Whitney keep dying unpleasantly.<br />Mel Odom does a great job on his first Angel novel, capturing not only Angel's character perfectly, but the interactions between Cordelia and Doyle as well. The make an interesting counter to what is building between Whitney and Angel.  Despite being pure fantasy, Odom's style adds the touch of believability that is necessary if a reader is to stay interested.<br />This story comes from the short period of time when every Angel story seems to depend on undoing the vampire's actions during the Angelus period, where amends and redemption had a very specific meaning.  Unfortunately, the constant flashbacks wear thin after a while.  Redemption spends as much time in the past as it does in the present and, despite Odom's writing stills, I'm beginning to twitch every time I see Angelus in a frilly shirt.	2004-06-14
632491:US	53082946	R923UBTNT0ETU	0345450388	954537115	Flinx's Folly: A Flinx & Pip Novel	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A Bit Too Haphazard	This is the eighth in Alan Dean Foster's series about a boy and his flying mini-dragon.  Of course, Flinx is no longer a boy, has some very strange mental powers, and has managed to attract the attention of a host of unsavory characters.  Subject to burst of psychic energy, Flinx makes accidental contact with a being that has suddenly become interested in Commonwealth space.  This life form is something of a cosmic vacuum cleaner.  Where it passes, nothing is left.  And Flinx's fleeting contact tells him that the creature is both vast and evil.  And it has a special dislike for Flinx, who, somehow, holds the key to saving the universe.<br />Still unsure about what to do, Flinx (Phillip Lynx) heads for the planet of New Riviera, a paradise planet where an old lover and friend, Clarity Held works as a bioengineer.  At this point the plot starts moving by fits and starts, unable to make up its mind about whether it is a suspense/love story or suspense/alien menace story.  What at first seems to be an interesting diversion gradually becomes the primary focus, despite having little to do directly with the initial developments of the book.<br />This works against the book, which becomes a story stuck inside a story, both of which are primarily related by having occurred at the same time and place.  The reader keeps waiting for the connections to become clearer, but all you get is a dues ex machina transition from one to the other.  This is jarring, and, in my mind, badly weakens the story, which really lacks the compelling storytelling for which Alan Dean Foster is known.<br />It is fairly clear that this is novel is intended as a bridge to develop both the impending doom plot as well as several interesting returns to Flinx's past.  Eventually, we will solve the puzzle of who and what Flinx really is, but it won't happen in this volume.  Instead, this is one of those books you have to read if you want to get to where the series is going.  Hopefully, once things settle down, the future will bear more fruit.  In the light of that, you may want to wait for the next volume to appear before committing to this one.own, the future will bear more fruit.  In the light of that, you may want to wait for the next volume to appear before committing to this one.	2004-06-12
635212:US	53082946	RTYNMPWX8HGSU	0918036089	437681167	The Care and Use of Japanese Woodworking Tools	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Deceptive Simplicity	Lately, in the process of doing some remodeling, I've gotten a bit of a bee in my bonnet about making some shoji doors for several entryways.  While I'm not so determined that I want to do this using purely Japanese traditional tools and techniques, I believe it is important to understand the underlying mechanisms if one wants a product that is more than a tedious, and cheap imitation.<br />Mesirow and Herman's book is a very straightforward and practical presentation of the tools of the Japanese carpenters trade.  Straightforward, is a relative term.  The authors freely admit that &quot;Japanese saws, chisels, planes, knives, axes, and adzes are complicated beyond belief, difficult to use, and hard to maintain.&quot;  But following that off-putting statement they do their best to bridge the knowledge and experience gap with sections on saws, planes, chisels, marking gauges, and stones, heavily illustrated with pen and ink drawings.<br />Planes get the most attention, but every subject is presented with enough information to separate the dilettantes from the committed.  To a modern Westerner like me, used to exotic machinery that costs only slightly less than the best Japanese traditional tools the idea of tools that take years to learn to use is both awe inspiring and frightening.  Yet these very tools are capable of end products that are an order of magnitude finer than precision machinery can deliver.<br />One can wish that 'The Care and Use of Japanese Woodworking Tools' was a bit more expansive on the qualities and ranges of the various tools.  More photographs would have been nice as well as some anecdotes and examples.  But as a 'simple,' inexpensive first tour the book does exactly what it is supposed to do, teach and guide.  By all means take a look at it.	2004-06-10
635454:US	53082946	R8AEZ6QJS0HDS	0395966582	152573253	All She Was Worth	Books	5	41	41	N	Y	For Want Of A Penny	It is a shame that this single volume is the only novel of Miyuki Miyabe's that has made it into translation.  In Japan, Miyabe is a highly successful writer whose novels have been adapted into 10 films as well.  Here she is only barely known, represented only by a single detective story - All She Was Worth.<br /><br />https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/customer-reviews/stars-5-0.gifThe novel tells the story of Shinsuke Honma, a middle-aged police detective who is off duty while recovering from a gunshot wound to his leg.  The enforced inactivity has begun to wear thin on him, and a request from a distant relative to investigate the disappearance of his fiance - Shoko Sekine - tempts him into a freelance investigation that is part meticulous investigation and part social commentary.  Shoko disappeared when it was revealed that she had gone through a personal bankruptcy.  Honma discovers layer after layer of misdirection and subterfuge - the disappearance is only a reflection of the grim truth.<br /><br />The telling of the story reveals many of the inherent differences between Japanese and Western writing, even as it pares away at a social problem - easy credit and indebtedness - that is universal in both cultures.  The telling is extremely detailed, with a strong focus not on the plot, but on the social and family milieus of the characters.  The style is very naturalistic, and may irk American readers who are so used to stories that are action based and plot driven.  Yet there are opportunities here for the writer to indulge of some niceties of language, many of which come through despite it being a translation.<br /><br />What Miyabe has chronicled is the lives of ordinary Japanese, carrying on with their lives, not the flashy high tech or Samurai mythos face of Japan that we see most often in imported Japanese culture.  This is quite eye-opening, even as we realize that quiet desperation is not just a Western phenomenon.  In a sense, the plot itself isn't very important.  In fact, the reader will know from fairly early in the novel what the crime is and who committed it.  But the details of Honma's investigation, the bits of his family life, the fine grains of Shoko Sekine's own adventures, fit together like a puzzle, forming a compelling whole of their own.  As such, this is an excellent introduction into what makes Japanese popular fiction tick.t very important.  In fact, the reader will know from fairly early in the novel what the crime is and who committed it.  But the details of Honma's investigation, the bits of his family life, the fine grains of Shoko Sekine's own adventures, fit together like a puzzle, forming a compelling whole of their own.  As such, this is an excellent introduction into what makes Japanese popular fiction tick.	2004-06-09
638416:US	53082946	RZ8XEQSQCPMD5	0941936473	618847319	Making Shoji	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Art On Purpose	If you ever want to be deeply impressed with the human ingenuity take a look at this book.  The lowly shoji door, is a commonplace in Japanese homes.  Not just as doors, but as windows and room dividers.  And each is a work of art, put together by craftspeople like Toshio Odata using the same tools they did a thousand years ago.<br />For the woodworker this book is a detailed study of the techniques and processes involved in creating an object that is simple in its concept and incredibly complex in it's potential.  To the student of Japanese culture the book is a vivid tour of the philosophy and commitment that underlie many of the simple, traditional factors of their lives, from doors to teacups.  An insight into some of their aesthetic underpinnings.<br />Homeowners in Japan would collect and age wood, especially for their houses.  Then an itinerant craftsman would take up residence for the time needed, building both his workshop and then features expected of him.  All the tools he used must be easily portable and capable of work both delicate and massive.  For a true master, an intricate door would take a day, despite being made completely from scratch.<br />Odate combines instruction with anecdote, while the photographs and diagrams are easy to follow.  Compared to the traditional way a Japanese learned carpentry (by 'peeking' at the master) this book is a gift for those who want to master the Japanese toolset.  For someone like me, who is used to modern machinery and automation, the book is a lesson in humility as well.	2004-06-07
639415:US	53082946	R2TQ1BDUX4OTAC	0743427742	480613578	1: Wicked Willow I: The Darkening (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	And When She's Bad...	What if Willow didn't return to being a good witch?  What if, after stealing all of Giles' power Willow didn't respond to the pain of the world, and didn't decide to destroy the earth?  What if, instead, she became so fixated on bringing Tara back the nothing else mattered?  What if she really, really liked being a dark witch?  One thing is certain, the Scooby Gang would be in a world of hurt.<br />These are Yvonne Navarro's assumptions in her new alternate history trilogy about the Buffyverse.  Despite Buffy's best efforts and being haunted by Tara, Willow is intent on draining the world of enough power to defy the rules and return Tara to life.  Never mind that Tara doesn't want to come back, never mind the folks who used to be her friends.  Wiillow is going to have her way.<br />The first part of the darkening rehashes episodes 20 thru 22 of Buffy The Vampire Slayer right up to the confrontation in the Magic Box.  Then, where the original Willow heads for the temple on the bluff, this Willow sets up a luxury pad in a warehouse and assembles a coven to help her work the dark arts.  Throw in a few surprising pets and an extremely bad attitude and trouble, thy name is Willow.<br />For those of us bloodthirsty types Willow never really got a fair shake when Tara died.  Her friends barely noticed Tara's death, and then are so concerned about Willow's eternal soul that they never quite got the idea that Willow was in an excruciating amount of personal pain.  If Zander had not finally realized that he had to get through to Willow the person the world would have cooked.  This time that isn't an option.<br />This is the first volume of a trilogy, and Navarro leaves us with no hint about whether there is a path to redemption for Willow.  Now her only connection to her humanity is the ghost of Tara and that is tenuous at best.  Much hangs in the balance, and Navarro has certainly got my attention for the duration.	2004-06-07
641502:US	53082946	RBYC7QOLHGA07	0441011632	572870865	Nightingale's Lament (Nightside, Book 3)	Books	4	17	20	N	Y	Sing A Song Of Sixpence	Dodging the enforcers after accidentally (on purpose) shutting down 12 percent of The Nightside's electricity. John Taylor, the dark world's premier finder accepts a new assignment, to talk to the daughter of a client - singer so powerful that listeners in the audience have been known to commit suicide.  Now going clubbing on the Nightside can be fun, exciting, and, if you're not lucky, fatal.<br />Rossignol is the singer's stage name.  Once upon a time her songs were happy ones, but now she works for the Cavendish twins and they want to use the power of her voice.  If she happens to kill a few dozen people in the process, it doesn't bother them in the least.  It's John and Dead Boy to the rescue as they look for clues to the Cavendish's strangle hold while righting a few unexpected wrongs.<br />In this third volume in the series, Simon Green finally gets all the bits right.  Nightingale's Lament lacks the overblown noir rhetoric of the previous two volumes.  This gives the story an easy believability that is critical to the success of dark fantasy.  Green's slightly tongue in cheek noir becomes more compelling when the characters behave in a natural fashion.  Natural to The Nightside, that is.<br />As usual, Green spends a great deal of time creating and developing his characters.  Besides Rossignol and the Cavendishes, there's Julien the newsman, Dead Boy, who was too mad to die, and numbers of peculiars that only a secret city in the heart of London could play host for.  Keep an eye out for this and future episodes in the career of John Taylor, who can find anything, whether you want him to or not.	2004-06-05
645323:US	53082946	R3TQUZP98N1VDV	1591161355	217031243	Battle Angel Alita: Last Order, Vol. 3 - Angel Eternal	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	&quot;Good To Go&quot;	Alita, Wu Ping and Desty Nova begin this volume on the threshold of Ketheres, the last station of Earth.  The first citizen they meet is Trinidad who reveals that Nova is the result of a project that is near and dear to Tinidad's heart (or brain).  Alita, from Trinidad's viewpoint is excess baggage, and a short confrontation leaves her and Wu at severe disadvantage.  Once again, Alita turns an apparent weakness into a strength, and her survival shifts the plot into a new gear.<br />Other than vague hints, Yukito Kishiro has always been very reticent about the overall scope of the series.  First one city on a single planet, then a floating city, then something most like a space station.  Now we find out that there is a whole solar system out there full of people every bit as devious as the ones we have already met.  A whole political dimension opens up to be exploited, and you can be sure that Alita loses no time in becoming embroiled in the future of worlds where immortality is a commodity.<br />The story bogs down a bit mid-volume as Kishiro brings the reader up to speed on the status of the solar system, but the hiatus doesn't last for long, as Alita heads out into space with for what promises to be a return home and a major battle.  The changing settings give the artist/writer a chance to do what he does best - draw, and create characters.  It is this scope and the detail of vision that sets Alita apart from most other manga other than other standouts like Akira and X/1999.<br />Alita is a modern hero, beautiful, deadly, and determined - which ethics and values which completely surpass her cyborg nature.  This series continues to find the middle ground between action and morality play without ever leaving a hint of over-acting.  While there have been some attempts at creating OVA for this story, the story begs for serialization as anime.  Anime with a lot of computer graphics, since Yukito Kushiro has an eye for detail that rivals Hieronymous Bosch.  I will look forward to that day.forward to that day.	2004-06-02
646620:US	53082946	ROXAMSM222B6U	1569319766	583009938	Battle Angel Alita: Last Order, Vol. 2 - Angel of the Innocents	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Not All Demons Come From Hell...	In a struggle that pits adults against children the residents of Tiphares act out the age old questions of whether an imitation can replace human nature. Of course, the answer is no - the adults, who have had their brains replaced with tiny computer chips, have become compliant, but that does not mean they are not jealous of their prerogative.<br />For the youth, who now understand the deeper meaning of freedom, the fight is for survival as individuals - as true humans. Yet, when pressed, they too will stop at nothing, and it is the children who unleash a monster so deadly that only Alita can stand up to it, But even the super-powered cyborg is dangerously outclassed.<br />As Yukito Kishiro's new series unfolds, the reader learns that this story is far larger that the limits of the city in the sky. Kaos, who lost almost everything in the first series has returned - ruined, but determined to make amends. And by the simple, age-old mechanism of a paper plane a bond is re-forged and a faint, slightly cynical glimmer of hope appears to light the way.<br />For all the this series is still a vehicle for Alita's spectacular fighting skills the story reveals more depth and a finer sense of rhythm than the first series. Too often sequels seem to suffer from weakness, but Kishiro seems to have husbanded his strength. As complexity and character develop the story grows stronger as well.	2004-06-01
646973:US	53082946	R3PTAC2JL4HU6W	189206538X	118562128	Tales of Pain and Wonder	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	&quot;...they've killed poetry...&quot;	'Tales of Pain &amp; Wonder' is a collection of Caitlin Kiernan's earlier work (if one is allowed to speak of the late 1990's as 'late').  As such, it presents many of Kiernan's important themes as they appear for the first time.  Characters surface for the first time as well, in particular Deacon Silvey who will show up again in two novels, 'Threshold' and 'Low Red Moon.'  This makes the collection 'important' if you are a Kiernan aficionado, but all that aside, what really makes this collection important is that it is very, very good.<br />I have lately come to refer to Kiernan as the 'last of the great horror writers.'  Partially as a lament for a genre that currently spends far too much time specializing in hot, romantic vampire novels, but also because she really is good enough that writers of her caliber are far and few between.  Hers is a horror that leaks out of the spaces between things and pervades the atmosphere surrounding her characters, clinging to them like a faint scent of doubt and rot.  Yet when its time finally comes, it is sure and brutal, sparing no unkindness.<br />Kiernan's characters exist on the fine edge of self-destructiveness, whether they come from wealth like the sisters Salammbo and Salmagundi, hypnotized by the beauty of death like Lark and Crispin, or, like Jimmy de Sade, have both feet firmly planted in terror so real it is an aesthetic experience.  The confront things they cannot understand, or know far too well, living the kind of homeless or disconnected lives that make them lightning rods for real horror, not the candy-coated-sip-your-blood kind.<br />Kiernan admits in her forward that the book has two narratives, one is the accident of the order of writing, and the other is a natural order where the interconnections among the tales is more obvious.  I chose to read in the latter order, which reveals the most about how the story arcs develop, rather than the former, which says more about Kiernan than her tales.  Both, though, are legitimate approaches, and produce equally valid if different experiences.<br />The writer has a knack for creating symbols and only half filling them in.  Eerie twins, cold presences, wounds that never heal, and barren landscapes come and go, but the reader is expected to do part of the work - to construct a narrative at least partially his own.  Part of the horror is that it is my terror that lurks about, as well as Caitlin Kiernan's.  Each of these stories is a opportunity to look in a place you desperately don't want to go, and to succumb to a nightmarish glamour.  And above everything stands Jimmy de Sade, judge and jury in a gothic world.<br />This is top grade stuff.  Kiernan's writing style is excellent - each word is carefully selected for its purpose, nothing is extra.  Characters quickly step out of the shadows and assume an unexpected reality.  This is what contemporary horror should be.e legitimate approaches, and produce equally valid if different experiences.<br />The writer has a knack for creating symbols and only half filling them in.  Eerie twins, cold presences, wounds that never heal, and barren landscapes come and go, but the reader is expected to do part of the work - to construct a narrative at least partially his own.  Part of the horror is that it is my terror that lurks about, as well as Caitlin Kiernan's.  Each of these stories is a opportunity to look in a place you desperately don't want to go, and to succumb to a nightmarish glamour.  And above everything stands Jimmy de Sade, judge and jury in a gothic world.<br />This is top grade stuff.  Kiernan's writing style is excellent - each word is carefully selected for its purpose, nothing is extra.  Characters quickly step out of the shadows and assume an unexpected reality.  This is what contemporary horror should be.	2004-06-01
647476:US	53082946	R2TW0L1SIBEXOR	0671041452	28313132	Not Forgotten (Angel)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Be Careful Who You Worship	This is the second novel in the Angel series (the first was the novelization of the season premier), once again by Nancy Holder, an established Buffy writer who has successfully made the transition to Los Angeles and our dark and broody vampire hero.<br />Starting in the jungles of Southeast Asia the fate of Rais family has become inextricable woven with Latura, the Indonesian god of death and sickness,  Fueled by the gods power to prolong life and grant favors Bang Rais has risen to great wealth and power.  Now he, his son Jusef, and his nephew Slamet are on the verge of accomplishing the unthinkable - incarnating Latura in a human vessel, granting the deity absolute power.<br />Called in to rescue the workers in a sweatshop, Angel finds himself confronted by a strange Indonesian wizard in a deadly firefight.  Curious about Angel's involvement, Kate Lockley reveals that there has been a string of weird deaths by fire recently - people who burn up from the inside out.  Angel investigates these crimes but is hampered by a lack of clues.  Until Cordelia runs into both Jusef Rais and a purse snatcher while bargain hunting and winds up with an invitation to a funeral.<br />Nancy Holder sets out to create an action story with an intricate plot.  Angel, Cordelia, Doyle, and a host of supporting characters weave back and forth to the point where it is sometimes difficult to tell who is the wizard and who is the sacrifice.  Despite these confusing moments, the story works, very much due to Holder's natural ability to develop characters.<br />'Not Forgotten,' despite its flaws, is an interesting story with a careful balance between the often sarcastic humor of the Angel team and the grim cult that they are trying to defeat.  Prepare to be both entertained and baffled, right up to the surprise finish.	2004-06-01
648088:US	53082946	R1OS52VHDM4CPH	0743493540	597013298	Van Helsing	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Once Bitten, Twice Shy	Novelizations of films start with several strikes against them.  The first is that they are written from the screenplay, often before the movie is actually filmed.  Which occasionally leads to a phenomenon that I call plot jitters, where the script and the writer go one way and the director and the film go another.  The other challenge is that most of the readers have already seen the film and look at the book as a piece of memorabilia.  Keeping the reader's interest when they already know what is going to happen is a tough assignment.  One that depends for the most part on how well the writer does what a 2 hour film cannot - in depth character development.<br />Occasionally, magic happens, and the book turns out to be an improvement over the film.  'Van Helsing' which is mostly a string of acts of violence or derring do interspersed with just enough dialog to keep the plot moving.  Given that Van Helsing himself is much larger than life, and the majority of the remaining cast are creatures like Dracula, Frankenstein, and various werewolves, the film sometimes resembled a grand opera noir rather than a horror film.  Kevin Ryan, by filling in the interior space of the characters - human and otherwise - does indeed outdo the film, which I found a bit tedious.<br />If the book fails to completely capture the atmospherics of the film, it does an excellent job of bringing Van Helsing, Anna, Dr. Frankenstein and several other characters to life.  And this makes the story more meaningful than a simple display of acrobatic feats.  I would almost suggest that you read the book first and then see the film, since having a clearer understanding of the motivations involved makes some of the dramatic foibles less irritating.  Besides, the book is cheaper than a trip to theater and if you don't like the book, you are going to hate the film.	2004-05-31
649170:US	53082946	R2YJ1IMSXH1G3N	0066214718	201516270	Guardian of the Horizon	Books	4	37	39	N	Y	&quot;Conquer by confusion, I always say&quot;	There comes a time in every series that covers a large number of years when it isn't possible to go further without the main characters discovering the secret of eternal life.  Elizabeth Peters' Emersons - Egyptologists, amateur sleuths, and eccentrics par excellence - have reached a point where the era they chronicle is gradually coming to a close.  Trust Peter's to find a solution, though, a new cache of papers that document the 'missing years' of the family's madcap career across the tombs and monuments of Egypt.<br />Set just previous to the blossoming of Ramses' relationship with Nefret, 'Guardian of the Horizon' documents the return to the 'Lost Oasis,' a last hidden survival of ancient Egypt - the Meroitic civilization that the Emerson's first discovered in the Sudan ('The Last Camel Died at Noon').  Readers will recall that the Holy City was where the Emerson's found Nefret, whom they late adopted.  Now, ten years later, Merasen, a young noble, appears in England with a message from Tarek, king of the Lost Oasis, and a close friend of the family.  There is illness in the Sudan and it threatens the survival of this hidden civilization.  Amelia, Emerson, Ramses, and Nefret quickly set out.<br />For Amelia and Emerson, setting out on a secret journey means that only half of Egypt knows that something is up.  As soon as word gets out that they intend to return to the Sudan to 'excavate,' a whole host of shady characters a drawn by the legends of hidden treasure that are rumored to be at the Lost Oasis.  Of course, that means trouble, and the journey to the Sudan is marred by violence, intrusion, and countless twists and turns as the Emerson's carry out one elusive maneuver after another.<br />When they finally arrive at their destination they discover that nothing is as they expected.  Instead of a sick king, they find themselves embroiled in a series of adventures that mix politics, religion, and, of course, just a bit of treasure.  While a bit slow in developing, the book builds to a classic Peters' finish, with the Emerson's concocting on scheme after another as they try to extricate themselves unharmed and save the kingdom at the same time.<br />Elizabeth Peters does a fine job of returning the reader to the Emerson's past without recreating what was originally one of the family's most irritating periods.  Instead, the writer allows Amelia and company just enough additional maturity to keep the story interesting without the extreme vaudeville that marked her work at that time.  While any reader knows that a certain amount of the experience of reading one of the Emerson stories is rolling one's eyes at some of the more hysterical displays, that has been kept to a low roar.  I enjoyed the book, and think that any other fan will do so as well.ping, the book builds to a classic Peters' finish, with the Emerson's concocting on scheme after another as they try to extricate themselves unharmed and save the kingdom at the same time.<br />Elizabeth Peters does a fine job of returning the reader to the Emerson's past without recreating what was originally one of the family's most irritating periods.  Instead, the writer allows Amelia and company just enough additional maturity to keep the story interesting without the extreme vaudeville that marked her work at that time.  While any reader knows that a certain amount of the experience of reading one of the Emerson stories is rolling one's eyes at some of the more hysterical displays, that has been kept to a low roar.  I enjoyed the book, and think that any other fan will do so as well.	2004-05-30
652062:US	53082946	R1M3X2SB8THVS6	0441011136	946983828	Agents of Light and Darkness (Nightside, Book 2)	Books	4	47	49	N	Y	Take A Cup Of Unkindness	In this, the second volume in Simon Green's tales of The Nightside we find John Taylor back in his old haunting grounds, playing tough guy, noir detective and doing what he does best - finding things.  This time he is on a grail hunt, not for the cup that Jesus drank from, but the other cup, the Judas Cup, which provides both ultimate power and ultimate corruption.<br />If it was just John Taylor and an ugly silver cup this would be a piece of cake for John - find it and return it to the Vatican, who will hide it from all the powers, human and otherwise.  But no such luck - everyone is after it.  Demons, gangsters, and angels - thousands of them, good and bad, all prepared to end the universe to gain the cup.  Knowing he is out of his depth, Taylor brings Shotgun Suzie on board, and together they challenge Armageddon.<br /><br />One can't fault Green for originality of plot.  As The Nightside reels from the attacks of angels who are nothing like the sweet creatures of New Age philosophy, we quickly realize there is more to the story than a simple rehashing of old magickal themes.  Green likes to play with ideas, even when disguised as a fantasy barn-burner.  And there is plenty of that - the only reason there isn't more violence is that people keep getting slaughtered before Taylor and Suzie arrive on the scene.<br />The only thing that wears thin in this series is Green's habit of overplaying the characterization.  Taylor, who plays a gumshoe with hidden magical talents and a knack for walking directly into trouble, is always in danger of being a stereotype, of which there are many in this tale - the wise guy bartender, the killer with a heart of gold, and, of course, Merlin.  Simon Green dances the thin line between parody and imitation and brings ot off most of the time, but not always.<br />If you like magical stories where bad things happen to everyone and the main character keeps getting warned about his mother you might very well like this story, as I did.  And there is nothing wrong about a novel that includes a bar where the spooks get drunk to the sounds of King Crimson.  This was written to be fun, and more often than not, it is.there is nothing wrong about a novel that includes a bar where the spooks get drunk to the sounds of King Crimson.  This was written to be fun, and more often than not, it is.	2004-05-27
654248:US	53082946	R1ORHK91J9NQ8Z	0671041444	501730466	Angel: City of (Angel)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	What To Do In Los Angeles	By now Angel's exodus from Buffy at the end of season three to start again is Los Angeles is cold news.  Even so, this novelization of the Angel series premiere still has a considerable amount of power.  Here is the initial gathering of Angel, Doyle, and Cordelia - still not quite sure what to do with themselves, but on the road to 'help the helpless.'<br />One of the things that I didn't notice when watching the show, and even on the first reading of Nancy Holder's excellent rendition, is that Angel really does recapitulate is initial time in Los Angeles.  Not quite as down and out, obviously, but footloose and unsure of himself.  He wants to do something, but his past seems to keep his present from happening.<br />Not just his immediate past with Buffy, but his whole experience as a vampire, from Darla and Drusilla onwards.  So my first reaction, which was that the script has way to many flashbacks was right, but for the wrong reason - something has to wake Angel from this reverie before he falls into complacent, bad habits and yields to the temptation of human blood.  Of course, that is Doyle's purpose.<br />Holder manages to fill in the inner details of motivation that are missing from the screenplay.  When we watch we have only the spoken word and the expressiveness of the actor to work with.  What we have here is a novelization that really does dig beneath the surface to uncover something of the inner workings of Angel's mind - as well as provide an impressive amount of history.<br />I've read my share of novels based on scripts, and, too often, they simply attempt to redeliver the dialog with barely narrative to fill in the action.  Holder goes well beyond this simple approach, and this story would live on its own, even if the series premiere never had happened.  Whether you saw the season start or not, 'City of' is worth reading.	2004-05-26
657288:US	53082946	R2BMI3NNBEDFKJ	0376016787	299388635	Complete Tile	Books	4	46	46	N	N	Excellent Technical Workbook	Whether you like this book or not will depend on whether you are looking for design ideas or a how-to book.  If the latter, then you will find this a source for all the basic techniques.  After short introductory chapters on the various kinds of tile (ceramic, stone, vinyl, laminate, etc.) and the tools needed to work with them, Steve Corey starts right in with chapters on tiling floors, walls, countertops, and patios.  A short chapter on care and repair wraps everything up.  The discussions are clear and well illustrated.<br />Where the book falls short is in discussing design principles and providing lots of examples.  Anyone who has ever wandered into a tile store has found an almost limitless number of possibilities and alternatives.  And price tags from pennies all the way to horrendous.  What is really needed is a book that makes order out of this chaos and helps the reader understand how best to fulfill a set of requirements.  Otherwise, the potential tiler is left to a great deal of guesswork.<br />In  the final analysis, more than one book is needed.  While this is an excellent technical resource, be prepared to turn to other resources.  The more information and ideas the merrier until you find the style that best suits your one needs.	2004-05-24
661586:US	53082946	R6FOTJEAY5ISJ	1569719918	983344313	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 12: Autumn Frost	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	What's An Arm Between Enemies	Hiroaki Samura's 'Blade of the Immortal,' set in the late 18th Century, is the story of that adventures of Manji, a swordsman made immortal and Rin, a young woman who seeks revenge against the men of the Itto-ryu, who killed her father, These are led by Anotsu, an unorthodox but deadly fighter himself.  At this point in the story Manji and Rin have become separated, as each pursues their own path to Kaga, where Anotsu awaits.<br />Manji has teamed up with another fighter, Magatsu, and the story starts with them swapping adventures on the road.  Suddenly an old enemy of both, Shira, appears.  Shira is a psychotic with a taste for killing women and the girl Magatsu loved was among his victims.  This triggers a free for all battle that occupies the majority of this manga, pitting Manji and Magatsu against Shira and a set of hired killers.  As is normal for Samura, the fighting is imaginative and beautifully choreographed, as well as full of Manji's wry sarcasm.<br />We get a short glimpse of Rin before the focus shifts to Anotsu himself, focusing on his decision to accept Hisoka's hand in marriage.  This exacerbates the tension over Anotsu's take-over of the sword school where she resides.  While this has yet to break out into decisive action, the note of violence hangs over the wedding like a promise, and it is only a matter of time before Anotsu's mettle is tested again.<br />It is interesting that Anotsu, originally introduced as a villain, is gradually being shifted into a more sympathetic role.  Samura has spent the time to develop him as a character, and it is impossible not to feel some sympathy for his goals, even if his methods are often cruel.  What this will mean in the long run is difficult to foresee, but clearly there are more surprises planned.<br />'Blade of the Immortal' has been a series as exceptional in its way as 'Battle Angel Alita' is in its.  In each case, the hero gradually develops from cold fighter to a brilliantly alive human being, dedicated to his companions.  Of course, Alita's appeal is more universal, while Manji remains focused on his local problems.  Hiroaki Samura uses the vehicle of the story to bring to life the Japan of his times, touching not just on the Samurai class but a wide swath of society.  While the extreme violence makes this a story that is not for everyone it is an exemplar of its genre.d to his companions.  Of course, Alita's appeal is more universal, while Manji remains focused on his local problems.  Hiroaki Samura uses the vehicle of the story to bring to life the Japan of his times, touching not just on the Samurai class but a wide swath of society.  While the extreme violence makes this a story that is not for everyone it is an exemplar of its genre.	2004-05-20
664752:US	53082946	R100R30L8H5RA	0843950315	129204569	Vampyrrhic	Books	4	9	12	N	N	An Army That Marches On Its Teeth	A young doctor returns to the town where is family lived for a 1000 years, a young woman imagines evil that stalks the halls at night.  An innkeeper struggles to keep dark secrets under lock and key.  And a vicious killer discovers he has a purpose.  Today is their last chance to end an ancient bargain or see the world overrun with endless death.<br />David Leppington is the doctor, returning to the town of the same name, where he learns of a bargain once made by Thor with his family in exchange for the destruction of Christendom at the hands of an undead army.  Together with Bernice Mochardi, Electra Charnwood and Maximillian Hart he finds himself confronted with the remnants of that ancient bargain - vampire-like creatures that are even harder to kill than the creatures they are modeled on.<br />The story is told in the dark halls and cellars of the Station Hotel, and in the web of caves that underlay Leppington.  It is a claustrophobic story, with no great arched rooms for ceremonies.  Nor are the vampires noble creatures of the night.  They only pause in their diet of animal blood from the town's slaughterhouses to vary their diet with human victims.  Just a black hunger waiting to spread itself across the landscape.<br />Simon Clarke applies a great deal of imagination to the challenge of creating a 'different' vampire tale and almost succeeds completely.  Norse vampires of any sort are a rarity, and the legends and reality that Leppington struggles with are a far cry from the foes of Buffy or Van Helsing.  The plot moves a bit slowly, some repeated violence beyond what is needed, but is mechanically sound.<br />For some reason that is hard to pin down, it never achieves the magnetic quality of great horror.  It is too easy to put down, and there are none of those great moments that your mind never quite forgets.  Perhaps because, for all its darkness, the story lacks many sources of real suspense.  Or perhaps it is that the characters never gel in sympathetic fashion.<br />Don't let this chase you away, though, I've read a lot worse things that pretended to be horror fiction.  Clark seems to have strong writing skills and a good imagination.  As long as you are not looking for a literary tour-de-force, you will find this worth the outlay.fashion.<br />Don't let this chase you away, though, I've read a lot worse things that pretended to be horror fiction.  Clark seems to have strong writing skills and a good imagination.  As long as you are not looking for a literary tour-de-force, you will find this worth the outlay.	2004-05-17
665479:US	53082946	R29ZKOXTDLK5DM	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	4	54	62	N	Y	A Place Even A Rat Would Leave	Hidden in the dark core of London is The Nightside, a place where it is always 3 A.M., and every arcane and twisted appetite can come for satiation.  Creatures from all the planes gather here, and not for idle chitchat.  And the gods, for the most part, avoid it like the plague.<br />John Taylor is a 'finder.'  It you pay him enough he can find anything, whether you want him to or not.  For the past five years Taylor has refused to enter The Nightside, fearful of a heritage that has made him one of the most feared an hunted men in a place where everyone hunts.  But nothing is forever, and the detective is offered a huge fee to discover the whereabouts of a young runaway who was last seen wandering the streets of  The Nightside, drawn like a moth to the fire.<br />With this beginning, Simon Green opens a new series about a run down noir detective whose territory is a place where no sane person would ever go.  Taylor is a strange cross between Angel and Philip Marlowe - full of attitude, wisecracking, and haunted by his past.  And The Nightside has a great deal of Los Angeles in its bones.<br />Green's error is in getting carried away with the Raymond Chandler imitation.  The plot is excellent, and The Nightside, if a bit derivative, is the kind of place where a hard-boiled detective with a 'private' third eye should be able to find countless interesting cases.  The prose is a bit too over-blown.  Caught by the necessity of establishing Taylor's character and the overarching weirdness of this little bit of occult geography, Green has allowed the writing to outrun itself.  The result is something that sounds like Chandler but without that writer's ability to stab an image through the heart in the space of a sentence.<br />Everything said and done thought, this was an interesting story despite some predictable twists.  Hopefully, the narrative will calm down a bit as the series establishes itself.  Green has a lot of experience writing top grade popular fiction, so I suspect that  The Nightside will become yet another success for this talented writer.spect that  The Nightside will become yet another success for this talented writer.	2004-05-17
666008:US	53082946	R6CE7UVNJHGD2	1569318247	99793243	Battle Angel Alita: Last Order, Vol. 1 - Angel Reborn	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	She's Back - And Twice As Bad!!!	Nova, the villainous researcher who spent much of the first Alita series foiling the efforts of the beautiful cyborg is back.  This time with a different agenda.  Equipped with the barest fragments of Alita's brain he remakes her, this time with an even better artificial body, the Imaginos.  Alita awakens to a world in chaos - Nova has reveled that citizens of Tiphares have had their brains replaced with chips, and the overprotective guardian machines turn on the populace to conceal the secret.<br />Still created and drawn by Yukito Kishiro, this new series has all that magic of its predecessor.  Battle Angel Alita remains a fine example of Manga that uses are to expand the imagination at the same time it entertains.  For all the spellbinding action and violence, the driving factors behind the series remains the intangibles that separate human from non-human, and life from imitation.<br />For all that Alita is 'made' rather than born, she is clearly more human than the chip-brained adults of Tiphares, who see themselves as the perfection of the species.  In the beginnings of a complex plot that pits adults against their children, Alita once again displays both her power and her compassion, We are also granted glimpses of Alita's origins - the promises of explanations that were never forthcoming in the initial series.<br />In a world where sequels are cheap and easy, it's nice to see the effort Kishiro and VIZ publishing have put together to create something even better than its origins.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-05-16
669016:US	53082946	R3FE0HOI655WHU	0743492897	770437309	Hellboy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	You Had To Have Been there	There is possibly no easier, or harder task in writing than adapting a screenplay into a novel.  The plot is set, the characters defined, and the ending resolved.  And a good deal of the dialog is written.  The writer's task is primarily to fill in the inner and outer details, and hope, desperately, that the film follows the screenplay as closely as the novel does.  The biggest drawback is that every error of scriptwriting and every internal inconsistency cannot be ignored, but must be somehow justified.  Often, the latter is not always possible.<br />Navarro is fortunate in that Hellboy the film resonates with Hellboy the script.  She captures the action of the film well, and the interior motivations and interactions are well communicated.  Once the reader gets past a somewhat chaotic beginning, the story of a young demon who has given himself to the good, and the other members of the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense unfolds easily.<br />The good fight moves from New Jersey to the darkesses of Russian crypts as Hellboy struggles against a host of enemies incarnated by the same evil forces that brought him into this world.  Friendship and love are prime motivations for this teenager with the body of a giant as he faces enemies without and within.<br />My complaint is that Navarro is less able in taking the disjointed scenes in the script and creating the same continuity that the film builds with visual imagery.  The beginning is where this is really apparent, and Navarro seems to have adopted a 'see the film first' approach.  Of course, in most cases this will be true, but it never hurts to give the reader an even break.  Once things settle down, Navarro's well-proven skills win the day, producing an eminently readable story.	2004-05-14
669711:US	53082946	R1DEEPDC1MBDWR	081255731X	536855702	The Haunted Air : Repairman Jack (Repairman Jack)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Unexpected Visitations	Jack is the ultimate rebel, refusing to take any membership in society - as far as the workings of bureaucracy know Jack does not exist.  This leaves him free to pursue his own goals - fixing peoples problems, righting wrongs, and occasionally scamming the bad guys.  His only direct connections to the world we know are his two loves, Gia DiLauro and her young daughter Vicky.  All things considered Jack has a pretty good life for a non-being.<br />Or he did until Gia talks him into visited Ilfasen the psychic on a whim.  No sooner does Jack cross the threshold into Menelaus Manor when an earthquake signals a new phase in Jack's life and responsibilities.  Gia is pregnant, dead children are haunting the living, and Jack find's himself propelled unwillingly into a conflict with the 'Otherness.'  The same force was the indirect cause of his sister's death earlier in the year.  Now it seems to be playing for even bigger stakes.<br />This is at least the sixth in F. Paul Wilson's Repairman Jack series.  In it Wilson complete the shift from stories which seem supernatural but aren't quite that simple to a world where evil is a real power and the spiritual world often overlaps the mundane.  This adds life to the series, and makes 'The Haunted Air,' despite a few faults, the best written in the series for some time.<br />While I was uncomfortable with was Jack's excessive macho in the face of Gia's pregnancy.  While Jack has never been a particularly complicated person, he succumbs to the situation by becoming over protective of Gia, who really does have a mind of her own.  In fact, Gia is far better at ignoring Jack's attempts at parenting that I was as a reader.  It will be interesting to follow this relationship in future volumes.  Of which there will no doubt be many.	2004-05-13
675180:US	53082946	R1Z6VTRT94BH8T	0671509934	690089457	The Thousand Recipe Chinese Cookbook	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Pass The Bitter Melon, Please	I was packing my cookbooks in preparation for some kitchen remodeling and, for the umpteenth time I found myself paging through Gloria Miller's opus magnus on Chinese cooking.  This is probably the most worn out book on the shelf - stained, dog-eared, scribbled in, and every other horrible thing that could happen to a book that is normally open when cooking.  I still love this book, although I've absorbed enough knowledge over 30 or so years of using it so that it has had a chance to rest.<br />There are countless chapters on ingredients, techniques, tools and everything else one needs to know.  And an unending supply of recipes and variations on recipes.  All of this is done in a well-written, reader friendly style that engages the budding Chinese cook and unfolds a whole new world of cooking.  I don't know if there really are a thousand recipes here, but I can testify that I have eaten at least a thousand meals that were cooked based on these pages.<br />When this cookbook was written, Chinese food stapes that we take for granted today were often hard to come by.  To overcome this, Miller spends a considerable amount of time on substitutes.  This is still important today, even when all the key spices are readily available on the internet.  One you grasp the principles, almost anything is eligible for a trip to the wok.<br />This is one of those landmark cookbooks.  Dating back to the beginnings of the popularity of oriental cooking, it has been the mainstay of a generation of cooks.  While most cookbook's tend to alternate chitchat with recipes and a smattering of explanation, Miller's book is a primer on the theory of Chinese cooking that contains a whole spectrum or information.  If you want to get past the occasional stir-fry, this is your best roadmap.	2004-05-09
676242:US	53082946	R3A95RG0CLNKAI	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	35	44	N	N	Take Only As Directed	The Da Vinci Code follows the model that Dan Brown set in Angels and Demons.  Robert Langdon, ostensibly a symbologist, visits Paris, where he is dragged into the investigation of a killing - not as a consultant, but as a suspect.  In the Louvre lies the body of a famous curator, with Langdon's name beside the body.  The sudden appearance of the curator's daughter triggers the opening glimpses of a plot nearly 2,000 years old and Langdon finds himself fleeing for his life across Europe with the beautiful Sophia.<br />As the story deepens we discover that Sauniere's death was the opening salvo in a renewed conflict between the Priory of Sion and the Catholic Church.  The target is the grail and its unlimited power.  Typical of a Brown story, the plot unfolds frantically of a short time window (no one every sleeps in Dan Brown novel).  Be prepared for a short course in the alternative history of Christianity and the forces around it.<br />Brown creates the basis of his plot out of all the paranoid plots of the ancient world, as well as drawing heavily on some of the Catholic Church's less salient moments.  I wouldn't say that the book is totally anti-Church, but a very grim picture is painted of both the origins of modern Christianity in the Council of Nicaea, and the present day Opus Dei movement.  To say that this is controversial is to understate the point.<br />Despite Brown's tendency to be overly didactic (everything gets explained in excruciating detail), the book is much better written than its predecessor.  Adventure/suspense stories are rarely stages for much character development, and this is no exception.  But in terms of a continuous flow of action and an intricate plot with countless twists, the book is quite readable.<br />Keep in mind that Brown has woven this story out of an unlimited number of legends and half-truths.  In other words, don't take it seriously or mistake the book for an attempt to defame the religious.  Don't make it any more real than it actually is.han it actually is.	2004-05-08
683614:US	53082946	R1YT5JJC4O1ORL	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Sincerest Form of Flattery	Adam Dalgliesh has been solving mysteries for P. D. James for some time now.  There are something like fifteen of them, and like fine wine, each story appears when it is ready, not when a publisher needs more income.  It has been some time since James' last ('Death in Holy Orders') and it was a great pleasure to discover 'The Murder Room' sitting on the shelves.<br />If P. D. James were to be defined by a genre, then one would call her a specialist in police procedurals.  But she hardly fits the mold.  Commander Adam Dalgliesh, poet and detective, is not one to follow process, and the crime is likely to require both his fine and logical eye for details as well as his sensitivity to the nature of victims and suspects.  'The Murder Room' unfolds slowly, starting with over a hundred pages of finely detailed characters description and scene setting.  In this case the crimes transpire at The Dupayne, a family run museum dedicated to England between the wars.<br />The future of the museum is in doubt, as three siblings (Neville, Caroline, and Marcus Dupayne) squabble over the signing of the lease.  As tensions slowly mount, one of the museum exhibits - on the murders of the times - becomes a source of inspiration for a killer.  Dalgliesh finds himself faced with a case where there is no lack of suspects, but a great lack of hard evidence.  Distracting Dalgliesh (if anything can be said to distract him) is his developing relationship with Emma Lavenham (from 'Death in Holy Orders').<br />As always, all of P. D. James characters come quickly to life on the pages.  You will quickly find yourself in sympathy with Tally Clutton, the museum's housekeeper.  Not all are sympathetic, but it is amazing how vivid each is by the end of the book.  James' books are never fast paced, and this one is no exception.  There were a few early moments when I though the book might be getting away from the author.  But gradually the story becomes harder and harder to put down as it moves towards a well turned finish.ds a well turned finish.	2004-05-02
688864:US	53082946	R3B9JNWH73DM6P	1589230922	777543837	The Complete Guide to Flooring (Black & Decker)	Books	5	55	63	N	N	Something To Stand On	I suspect that one of the most insane decisions in my life is deciding to redo my kitchen - on my own.  This makes all kinds of practical sense, given what labor costs.  But I am incorrigibly un-handy.  But in a fit of pseudo-parsimony (you never really save any money doing something yourself - you just buy tools instead of labor) and a determination to recover my macho I have sailed into the unknown of plumbing, cabinetry, plastering, tiling, and, worst of all, flooring.<br />No sooner did it become obvious that replacing the floor was inevitable than I realized that I was completely clueless about what to use and how to go about it.  Of course there is no lack of people who will tell you what they would do, but this is one of those things that you live with forever and it needed to be wholly what I wanted.  At this point I scanned the shelf of the local handyman's heaven and found this little cheery volume.<br />For the most part it's quite practical.  Chapters on planning, design, and preparation nurse you through the start up and dreaded removing of the old floor stages.  Then there are chapters on hardwood floors, ceramic and stone floors, resilient flooring, and carpeting.  More follows on finishing and repair.  More than enough to answer the basic questions of how to close the knowledge gap and make a sensible decision about how to proceed.<br />There are countless photos, and the writing style is clear, even if it is a bit dull.  Of course, dull is a good thing when making a major household change.  One gets excited when the day is over and the job done, not by unexpected drama in the kitchen.  This seems as good a reference as any I've seen, and covers far more than I ever wanted to know.  I expect that someday soon my cats will be walking on something entirely new.  Complaining as they go, of course.	2004-04-28
690536:US	53082946	R22QOF52Q8VKO0	0440237254	970298573	Area 51: Legend	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Too Much Time On Their Hands	14,000 years ago on another planet far away, the human population revolted against their Airlia overlords and managed to free their planet.  Unfortunately, it was a Pyrrhic victory, the war left few alive, and the planet's ecosystem dying.  Now a small number of the survivors launch themselves into space to find other Airlia ruled enclaves and save the inhabitants, who are being groomed for a titanic battle between super-races.<br />Two of these travelers, Donnchadh and Gwalcmei come to our own planet, where the Airlia have established the city of Atlantic, and the human inhabitants are still too primitive to mount any resistance.  Their plan is to continually disrupt Airlia plans until the time was right for the final revolt.  It would take the full 14,000 years, and this book is the story of most of them.<br />In one sense this is a typical 'aliens founded the earth' book.  Doherty manages to attribute most of the Middle East's history to the machinations of Donnchadh and Gwalcmei and their opponents.  Atlantis, Pharaohs, Moses, Druids and King Arthur, all become part of a vast, slightly paranoid puzzle.  This book ties together the many threads that led up to the original Area 51 story - sometimes by stretching the historical truth, sometimes by fabricating things wholesale.<br />Doherty's style manages to keep this from becoming tedious, although I'm not sure I want to ever read any more about Donnchadh and Gwalcmei and their adventures.  The book covers such a long period of time and so many events that the narrative sometimes gets thin, but, overall, interest gets maintained - I've certainly read worse in this genre.  Since this is a prequel, it's not absolutely necessary to have read the other books in the series, but not knowing the future erodes the rational behind some of the actions in this volume.<br />In any case, it's quite readable, as it the entire series.  I still find myself irritated occasionally by a plot that requires humans to be perpetually lagging intellectually.  But if you are going to have alien super-races you are going to have to accept the existence of guileless humans.  As long as we zap them in the end, I guess it's all right.gging intellectually.  But if you are going to have alien super-races you are going to have to accept the existence of guileless humans.  As long as we zap them in the end, I guess it's all right.	2004-04-27
695786:US	53082946	R3CA9BQETLE8B0	0553801945	635540633	The Game	Books	4	20	20	N	N	The Game	As is often the case, Mycroft Holmes, who is ill and abed, turns to his detective brother to do what the entire British Secret Service cannot, track down Kimball O'Hara, who has disappeared into India.  Of course, Kimball, who is the original for Rudyard Kipling's Kim, has always been disappeared into India.  He has been a British agent, worked for the betterment of his adopted country of India, and been something of a mystic.  He is often missing, but this time Mycroft is convinced that there has been foul play.<br />Holmes is selected because he spent time in India during his own great disappearance, has met O'Hara, and, I suspect, because his wife is Mary Russell.  Mary is every bit Holmes equal, and in some ways his better.  First as a team, and then separately, they adventure to Northern India and the Principality of Khanpur, where they must face corruption, insanity, and sedition in an adventure that becomes quite a bit more than a rescue mission.<br />King does her usual best to mix plenty of fact into her fiction, so that 'The Game' becomes a travelogue and a sociological record in addition to an adventure.  There is less deduction in this novel than in some of her other Russell/Holmes stories.  Due mostly to the fact that the clues always lead in one direction and the real excitement becomes the tricks, feats, and disguises that enable the team to survive and conquer.  King also excels at developing a supporting cast, and as one might expect from a book set in India, that cast is almost numberless.<br />My only real criticism is that the story is very slow paced.  Indeed, it is timed more like a travel diary than an adventure novel.  I'm comfortable with an author that lavishes a wealth of detail on an interesting story, but for those that prefer a brisker pace this may be a bit off-putting.  Kings ability to capture both the culture of the Asian subcontinent and the artificiality of the British presence, right at the time when India was in a crisis between the desire for independence, the influence of the Raj, and the menace of a Russia looking hungrily over the Himalayas.the desire for independence, the influence of the Raj, and the menace of a Russia looking hungrily over the Himalayas.	2004-04-22
700845:US	53082946	R2D6YPB4FPVYEK	0786012757	395410691	After Human	Books	1	7	8	N	N	I Just Can't Stand It Anymore	One of the duties of a reviewer is to stick through a novel to the bitter end, be it ever so painful, so that the reader won't have to make the same mistake.  But for the first time in almost 4 years of reviewing, I honestly wish I had simply thrown a book away.<br /><br />'After Human' is ostensibly a horror story, although to what purpose I am not cognizant.  Michael Cross devotes himself to cataloging the existential angst of a miscellaneous collection of serial killers (who may or may not be vampires) all of whom dote on dissection, torture and gratuitous cruelty.  And that is exactly and precisely the plot, other than some apocalyptic meanderings which are over before they start.  Most of the readers confusion will arise from a stubborn believe that there is some undercurrent of meaning that has escaped them.  Have no fear, it is not there.<br /><br />Imagine a great catalog of gory moments and splashed organs, interspersed with writing that is so tedious that, at some point, you will become convinced that the authors entire intent was to irritate the reader into giving up books entirely.  What I am trying to say is that, even if you like forays into SM literature, this is less of a book than you might want.  Characters who lock themselves is dark underground crypts for the sole purpose of playing dice with thighbones are weird, but unless a great deal of skill is applied, they are not interesting.<br /><br />Somewhere around page 200, I lost all interest in making a polite expression of reviewerly distaste.  Once upon a time I read a book review that announced that the book under consideration was so bad that the readers should decamp to their local bookstores and earnestly try to discourage people from reading the book.  While this may not be that awful, it is a disappointing attempt to revisit the vampire theme from a self-consciously shallow viewpoint.<br /><br />Almost everything is better...	2004-04-19
706422:US	53082946	R2OD9GH9L6FZE5	0689860153	559317457	Solitary Man (Angel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;A solitary man is either a beast or an angel&quot;	Mildred Finster simply has too much time on here hands.  At 71 she's grown tired of her comfy mysyery stories and has decided to venture out on her own, solving crimes and bringing evildoers to justice.  Unfortunately Mildred has decided to set her eyes on Los Angeles where she intends to apprentices and an agency with a 'cute' name - Angel Investigations.<br />In the meantime Fred and Gunn are barely talking, Cordy is living (?) at Connor's place, Wesley it staying carefully away and Angel is, as usual, being moody.  When ex-higher being Cordelia has a vision of a weak old man tearing a truck driver into shreds the team investigates but gets nowhere.  What is even more embarrassing, Mildred manages to to go where Angel fears to tread (sorry about that) and the gang has to cope with being outplayed by a 71-year-old Miss Marple.<br />But the vision is serious, and events quickly reveal that the little old man is pure badness on the hoof.  Soon the team is mixing it up with Spanish mission priests, unconscious poltergeists, and the little old man from hell.  Not good, and, as you might expect, the world hangs in the balance.<br />Basically, this is a good book.  The characters are well drawn, which is what we should expect from a writer with Mariotte's experience.  Th plot is good, but the dialog is a bit stilted due to the fact that everyone is having problems with someone.<br />What keeps it from being topnotch is that it overplays, for the umpteenth time, one of the standard Buffy/Angel themes - the 'big hero learns not to turn his (or her) back on the team and go it alone' theme.  If you are new to the stories, this shouldn't bother you.  But long term addicts will find themselves wondering why, with fragments of relationships flying all over the pages, the big story is about killing something together.  Grump!!	2004-04-14
715029:US	53082946	RYOOXW2KL8Q3E	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What You Get Is What You See	This is a story of the sixth estate - the world of advertising and marketing where icon and archetype seem to magically translate into world power.  Somewhere an artist deconstructs snippets of images into film - footage, which is distributed mysteriously to collectors and fans via the Internet, creating an entire subculture devoted to the understanding the phenomenon.  Those that haunt this world are as fervent as any worshippers, gathering each piece of footage, trying to fit them together like a jigsaw puzzle, creating extended philosophical castles out of black and white cards.<br />In the midst of this comes Cayce Pollard, a media consultant whose most important skill is the unique ability to sense whether an icon or symbol, an iota of design, will succeed in the perpetual battle for mind-share that is marketing.  A 'footage-head' herself, she comes to London to deliver her opinion and is swept into an intrigue that mixes footage, fashion, and an eerie reflection of 'spy vs. spy' into a story that is compelling and thickly layered.  Cayce is the needle that sews the parts of the pattern together, going from London to Japan to Russia and all parts in-between.  Allies arise from Internet connections and chance meetings over Curta calculators.  Enemies lurk in designer frocks and portfolios.<br />The tapestry against which the story evolves is one created by Cayce Pollard's allergy to the hackneyed icons of advertising.  The Michelin Man puts her in a fugue state; Tommy Hilfiger gives her dizzy spells.  For Cayce to survive aesthetically she immerses herself with a minimalist style that decries symbol and color.  She dresses in Cayce Pollard Units - CPUs, simple, monochrome, all identity labeling removed.  A Buzz Rickson jacket - a careful imitation of a maintenance squadron jacket that is fashionable because of its total lack of fashion sense, a black skirt from a thrift shop, Japanese schoolgirl shoes, the list of oblique product is endless, inescapable, and continuously revisited.  Everything is drawn from actual life, as if this was a fantasy based on a perfect, inverted reality.<br />Against this whirl of fashionable fragments the underlying architecture of the book plays itself out.  For Cayce there is a world and a 'mirror' world.  Symbolized her by live on either side of the Atlantic Ocean.  New York (only reverenced, never visited) and London, where the eerily related events start to play themselves out.  For Cayce, the differences are subtle and important, but her hypersensitivity to the iconic is fueled by the overlap of these worlds as the 'real' overwhelms and mutates the 'mirror.'  The footage, which is set someplace where real and mirror have no meaning, is edited so that each piece is an icon of itself.  And ancient forgotten personal computers are assembled into art forms.<br />The message, if there is one message, is that the pattern is wherever you look for it.  Like fractals, the tiniest piece reflects the whole.  Gibson creates something like a New Age Cyberpunk without the bad parts of either world view.  And somehow manages to affirm the nature of creativity in the process.  This is possible Gibson's subtlest work, and easily one of his best.  Read it... then read it again.  It won't be the same.tinuously revisited.  Everything is drawn from actual life, as if this was a fantasy based on a perfect, inverted reality.<br />Against this whirl of fashionable fragments the underlying architecture of the book plays itself out.  For Cayce there is a world and a 'mirror' world.  Symbolized her by live on either side of the Atlantic Ocean.  New York (only reverenced, never visited) and London, where the eerily related events start to play themselves out.  For Cayce, the differences are subtle and important, but her hypersensitivity to the iconic is fueled by the overlap of these worlds as the 'real' overwhelms and mutates the 'mirror.'  The footage, which is set someplace where real and mirror have no meaning, is edited so that each piece is an icon of itself.  And ancient forgotten personal computers are assembled into art forms.  <br />The message, if there is one message, is that the pattern is wherever you look for it.  Like fractals, the tiniest piece reflects the whole.  Gibson creates something like a New Age Cyberpunk without the bad parts of either world view.  And somehow manages to affirm the nature of creativity in the process.  This is possible Gibson's subtlest work, and easily one of his best.  Read it... then read it again.  It won't be the same.	2004-04-08
719042:US	53082946	RR5L1XZUM98O7	0689867026	387298682	Nemesis (Angel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fred To the Rescue	This story, set after Fred discovered that her favorite professor was really the reason for her trip to Pylea, investigates some of the darker possibilities unleashed by those events.  A dear friend working at a local think tank contacts Fred but the reunion is interrupted by what appears to be a gangland slaying.  Fred, displaying unexpected fortitude, determines to seek out the cause behind the crime, even if Angel and Gunn won't help her.<br />The reason Fred is on her own is that Angel has been hired to look into the murders of a clatch of wizards who have gathered outside of Los Angeles to heal a breach in the spells that protect reality from the powers that shouldn't be.  Gunn, as the only available assistant accompanies Angel to the Wizard's castle, and soon everyone is up to their ears in dimension hopping badness.  Even Wesley and Connor get involved.<br />Because there are multiple subplots leading up to the conclusion the story displays surprising complexity for an Angel novel.  Intrigue and betrayal play a part in segment, and nothing is quite what it seems as the story shifts from scientific magic to magical science.  One thing is sure, if Angel and Gunn can't help the mages complete their spells reality is doomed.<br />This is the second novel that Fred plays a significant part in, and I honestly think that she gets better treatment from the authors than she does from the screenwriters.  Her determination to resolve the crisis is palpable, and it quietly becomes apparent that she is much more than a highly intelligent but fragile person.  The Ciencin's Fred has grown from her experiences and she is learning to be an independent person.<br />What keeps me from handing out 5 starts to this book is that the scenes with the mages are a bit contrived and overplayed.  This is often the case when mages have enough power to work miracles, but can't manage to defend themselves.  It doesn't make sense, so the authors have to create little illogics to keep the plot from imploding.  I think that if the wizards had been a bit less wizardly they would have been more believable.<br />Even with that exception, this is a solid addition to the Angel series, certainly not something you will regret reading.  the interplay of the regular characters is well captured, and there are even a few unique ideas to keep the brew boiling.ot from imploding.  I think that if the wizards had been a bit less wizardly they would have been more believable.<br />Even with that exception, this is a solid addition to the Angel series, certainly not something you will regret reading.  the interplay of the regular characters is well captured, and there are even a few unique ideas to keep the brew boiling.	2004-04-05
721323:US	53082946	R3SLHMZY9GX75T	0689856644	978767835	Sanctuary (Angel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Offer You Can't Refuse	Party night at Caritas.  The team is celebrating their successful return from Pylea, the reconstruction of Lorne's bar, Fred's rescue, and the good life in general when an explosion outside the club interrupts the fun.  A fire blazes across the street, then a half-hearted drive by shooting.  When the smoke clears, Angel counts heads, and Fred is missing - kidnapped on her first timid foray into Los Angeles.<br />We quickly find out that, like humans, the demon patrons of Caritas are spotty witnesses.  Of course, the fact that everyone was face down on the concrete doesn't help one bit.  As a result, the team splits up - doing research, questioning witnesses, and scouring the city.  Squeezing every microscopic clue for some element of the truth.<br />As the story switches from character to character it becomes clear that Fred's kidnappings is more than a 'grab the girl - get the money' action.  The story turns into a classic race against sunrise, with much more than Fred's life at stake.  But there are additional levels of complexity, as we meet the habitu&eacute;s of Caritas and delve in the demon life style as only Los Angeles could know it.<br />Jeff Mariotte is an old hand at creating popular fiction out of the world of Buffy, Angel, Charmed, Startrek and others too many to name.  His writing style is consistently solid, and he makes an effort to understand and deepen his characters within the context of their shows.  His books are often interesting as well as entertaining, and he avoids the temptation to simply go from one fight scene to another.  Classic Angel for the vampire addict.	2004-04-03
723652:US	53082946	R1C8PGZK7URFDW	0689864310	445784415	Fearless (Angel)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Unhealing Touch	Doranna Durgin starts out Fearless with an unusual premise.  A strange thing happens at the gangs most recent demon-killing party.  The humans suddenly experience superhuman healing abilities - and superhuman silliness as well.  On the other hand, Angel loses his vampirish capacity for recovery.  With Cordelia, Fred, Wesley, and Gunn rendered stupid, Angel must do the majority of the fighting getting badly injured in the process.  Worse, the ugly badness that messed with their heads gets away.<br />When the team returns to the hotel one thing becomes quickly apparent - everyone is so used to not having to worry about Angel that they literally ignore his needs.  In fact, they resent giving him attention so much that their response becomes one of intense selfishness and suspicion.  Angel is not the least bit comforted when a Yoda-like demon named Kluubp shows up and explains that the Giflatl feeds only on demons.  The toxin that weakens vampires stupefies and intoxicates humans so that they will wander off and forget the whole thing.  Including its magic healing abilities.<br />It is the latter which creates the real problem.  Giflatl toxin may not hurt humans directly, but it becomes a magnet for greed and social unrest.  So while Angel struggles to get rid of the Giflatl without any publicity, the gang gets furious with him for keeping secrets.  Making the whole thing a lose/lose proposition.  Angel's confrontation with his own fragility leaves him questioning his ability to care for Connor.  And when Gunn and Wesley go on a compulsive magic serum hunt Angel finds his friends are not quite as perfect as he thought.<br />Durgin succeeds in making this story more than just a 'stop-demon-save-world' construct.  Instead, the plot becomes the basis of some surprising character development.  We, like the rest of Angel Investigations, tend to take Angel for granted, and the story mirrors the effect of making one team member into a crutch.  I very much liked the introspective change of pace which balances very well with the underlying plot that drives the action.  If you are looking for an interesting viewpoint on the latter-day Angel, check this out.ve change of pace which balances very well with the underlying plot that drives the action.  If you are looking for an interesting viewpoint on the latter-day Angel, check this out.	2004-04-01
730450:US	53082946	RSRF3AU9NRXLT	0451411153	705657518	Bed Of Nails	Books	3	1	2	N	N	RCMP Au Gratin	If nothing else, Bed of Nails is a milestone, the tenth volume in a series authored under the pseudonym of Michael Slade.  Without exception, they belong in the hack and splash section of the bookstore.  These are serial killer horror stories with a thin veneer of detective mystery story.  One can honestly say that, regardless of which of the many authors is part of the current writing team, the stories are all almost identical in nature.  Although the earlier books were a bit more varied in the details.  Nowadays, a new Slade novel means someone is having Inspector Zinc Chandler for lunch again.<br />Regular readers will remember The Ripper, the homicidal maniac who structured his killings in a ritual that would enable him to warp time and place so that he can kill at will.  Even look up in an insane asylum, Ripper manages to convince The Goth that killing Chandler will reap amazing benefits.  And so, without any further adieu, a series of murders leads Zinc to a horror convention and then to the South Pacific, where the only item on the menu is Mountie sushi.<br />Slade stories always border on the zany, and Bed of Nails is no exception.  In many cases, the only people who seem to be running on all cylinders are the victims.  Another feature is unending details about everything from cannibalism and tarot cards to child abuse in the Canadian Bible Belt.  I have mixed feelings about this because some of it advances the plot and some is just idle chit chat to fill space.<br />If you like gruesome, Slade & Co. are just the writers for you.  Unfortunately the overall atmospherics (whacked-out killers, semi-competent Mounties, and sarcastic bystanders) lowers the impact of the gruesomeness.  It brings you up short when you realize that you are reading a description of the discovery of the victims parts (and what the killers did with those parts) as if it were a comedy or errors.<br />As I've already said, nothing really has changed from the first book in the series.  If you have liked them so far, you will like Bed of Nails.  But they are getting a bit too cookie cutter and formulaic to gain excellent grades.  Slade's writing, if you will, has failed to develop, despite the continuous rotation of authors.  Besides that, if Zinc Chandler gets ground up once more there wont be enough of him for another story.f you have liked them so far, you will like Bed of Nails.  But they are getting a bit too cookie cutter and formulaic to gain excellent grades.  Slade's writing, if you will, has failed to develop, despite the continuous rotation of authors.  Besides that, if Zinc Chandler gets ground up once more there wont be enough of him for another story.	2004-03-27
734387:US	53082946	R2BFTR39S8WW74	068986437X	332146319	Cursed (Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Gypsy Curses - You Can't Have Just One	Angel has pretty much the same problem with gypsies that Anya has with rabbits.  Whenever they show up there's trouble.  This time not only does Angel have to deal with Gypsies, he finds himself in the midst of a clan war of gypsy demonkind struggling to get possession of a set of sacred stones.  One group wants to use the stones to return home, and another wants to use them to take over the world to which they lead.<br />Spike, reeling from his disastrous relationship with Buffy, determined to get her back, gets involved in a series of deals that collapse like a house of cards.  Next thing he knows he is riding shotgun for another group of demons after, you guessed it, the same set of stones.  Sure enough, there is a collision with Angel on the horizon.<br />While Angel and Spike interact very little in the base story line, their history together plays a strong part in the current conflict.  A beautiful woman and her grand-daughter stand at one pole of this conflict.  Lyanka, who captured Spike's love for a time 100 years ago and Gitana who blames Angel for Lyanka's death.  At the other pole is Chavula Faa and, of course, Wolfram and Hart.<br />The story shifts back and forth between the turn of the century tale of Spike and angel's history together and the modern, almost military combat for final possession of the stones.  At stake is the fate of two worlds and the dreams of two vampires perched forever on the thin like between saved and lost.<br />Despite not being what the cover promises, Mel Odom does a solid job of putting together a complex story that is both filled with action and looks deeply into the motivations of the two vampires.  We have come to respect Angel over the years, but this is Spike still struggling with his own redemption - the vampire who loved too much.  There is something in this novel to please every one - solid, enjoyable reading.	2004-03-24
736104:US	53082946	R13733O6PWFOLB	0688174582	266560980	A Faint Cold Fear	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Too Much Dreary, Not enough Plot	Murder, Suicide, or Tedium<br />Writers who work in the grim reaper/suspense/mystery genre have to walk a difficult line.  Too little violence and the reader fails to connect with the dark side of the plot.  Too much violence, especially if it is gratuitous, and the reader starts skipping paragraphs looking for relief.  After all gruesome killings are a plot device, not an end in itself.<br />All forensic fiction is based on a mild exaggeration of the medical examiner's role.  Quincey aside, few of them ever take an active investigative role in an investigation.  Either the writer has to create a twist to make this believable, or the book is good enough that the reader will overlook the obvious.<br />In Karin Slaughter's stories of Sara Linton the 'twist' seems to be that someone close to Sara is drawn into the circle of victims.  Otherwise, the picture of a pediatric physician who doubles as medical examiner and has enough time to track down killers would ring false.  This worked in previous volumes but this time, faced with the fact that the crime that became Sara's raison d'etre, was entirely gratuitous.  Far from advancing the plot it became the basis for a sub-plot that I found to be distracting as it was all about Sara's relationships and very little about the story itself.<br />Most of this novel is subplots anyway.  Possibly the one that irritated me the most centered on Lena Adams, now ousted from the police force and working as security at the local university.  With suicide/murders popping out of the woodwork, Lena, who has, over three volumes, earned the honor of 'chief flake and angry person,' manages to screw up each and every investigation.  Even worse, the ending makes it clear that she will go on to make even bigger messes, as her personality continues to worsen.<br />At some point in this book I gave up.  The investigation was often fragmented by devices that should have moved the plot forward, but instead it stayed stuck at mid-point for most of the novel.  In the end the solution is pulled out of a hat with little sense of closure.<br />To sum up, if you like really grim forensic descriptions of injuries, plots that are more about the distress of the main character than about the crimes at hand, and great handfuls of self-destructive psychotic behavior, you will probably really enjoy A Faint Cold Fear.  Personally I'm a bit disappointed and am not sure I will follow this series into it's projected fourth and fifth volumes.he novel.  In the end the solution is pulled out of a hat with little sense of closure.<br />To sum up, if you like really grim forensic descriptions of injuries, plots that are more about the distress of the main character than about the crimes at hand, and great handfuls of self-destructive psychotic behavior, you will probably really enjoy A Faint Cold Fear.  Personally I'm a bit disappointed and am not sure I will follow this series into it's projected fourth and fifth volumes.	2004-03-22
738870:US	53082946	R1IG6Z2MGZJ7VA	0753507382	229112806	Slayer: The Next Generation	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Hey ho, let's go...	As an American, it hurts to admit that Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the quintessential expression of American cheekiness and derring-do, has been best chronicled by a Britisher.  Of course, I'm teasing a bit.  But there is no question that Keith Topping seems to have a better grasp of what is important in the Buffyverse than many of his contemporaries on this side of the ocean.<br />What Topping does not do is write one agonizing reprise after another of all the episodes of Season Six of the show.  As viewers will no doubt remember, Season Six was quite agonizing itself without that point being hammered home all over again.  Instead, Topping provides very short synopses, followed by myriad details of things that are unique, funny, or perplexing about each episode.<br />You will be treated to paragraphs on 'A little learning is a dangerous thing' (the power of misinformation),  'Denial they name is...' (Self-delusion in Sunnydale), 'It's a designer label..' (clothes, of course),  valley-speak, geek-speak, logic errors, and ever more items that bring to light the aspects of the production which the viewer, caught up in the story, is likely to miss.  All of this is done in a style that is an enjoyable mix of tongue-in-cheek and respectfully serious.<br />Topping is an excellent researcher.  His ability to find countless relationships, both intentional and accidental, to other atavars of popular culture is uncanny.  Nor does he hesitate to introduce the reader to the more analytic writings on Buffy and the Scooby gang.  Despite the spottiness of Season Six, Topping manages to ferret out all the good parts - to the point where I have to admit that the book is better than the season.<br />If you are a fan then you will want this book.  And you will want to track down Topping's other efforts on the show that nearly ate South California.	2004-03-20
739463:US	53082946	RBGUHEOOCS3TD	0312855826	406896571	The Lord of Castle Black (Viscount of Adrilankha, Book 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	To state the matter in its simplest form...	This is really the fourth volume in a series that started with 'The Phoenix Guards.'  This are alleged histories (or historical romances) penned by Paarfi of Roundwood, who has an imaginative approach to the events surrounding the cataclysm of Adron's disaster, when the Orb was lost, and it's recovery and the return of the Phoenix heir.  What sets these novels apart from the other series Brust set in the world of Vlad Taltos' is the different styles of the narrators.<br />Taltos' is not really a teller of tales.  His style was (actually will be) matter of fact, pithy, and the stories relied on their unusual plots and interesting characters more than their prose.  Paarfi however writes in a style that combines courtly with tongue in check.  He frequently uses paragraphs that are single sentences of close to 100 words.  Brust pulls this off beautifully, but, unless you are a fan of twisted language (like me), it can be a bit off-putting to the reader lately arrived on the scene.  For me, just reading Paarfi's ornate sentences is a pleasure all on it's own.<br />Don't get me wrong.  There may be several thousand extra words and continuous displays of oblique irony, but the plot is as busy as can be.  The Lord of Castle Black places all of the players on the stage and sets them to their tasks.  Zerika returns from the Paths of the Dead with the orb, Morrolan re-establishes his family estates.  Piro, Kytraan, Ibronka, and Roaana join forces with their older predecessors Khaavren, Tazendra, Pel and Aerich.  And all are arrayed against the pretenter Kana.  Behind everything, Sethra Lavode, the sorceress, weaves her plans.  Soon the 9th (or, maybe, 10th) battle of Dzur Mountain will take place and we will discover, to our delight, that more volumes are planned.<br />Thus, something dramatic happens with regularity.  Our heroes banter and go to battle with both swords and frying pans.  Even the villains of the piece are worthy.  Those who have come to love Steven Brust's curious world where elves are the common folk and us humans are Easterners, and viewed with suspicion.  I'm not sure if it's absolutely necessary to start out by reading the Taltos books (Jhereg, etc.), but starting with The Phoenix Guards might be the best plan.  It's available in paperback and will either win you over or convince you to read elsewhere.ious world where elves are the common folk and us humans are Easterners, and viewed with suspicion.  I'm not sure if it's absolutely necessary to start out by reading the Taltos books (Jhereg, etc.), but starting with The Phoenix Guards might be the best plan.  It's available in paperback and will either win you over or convince you to read elsewhere.	2004-03-19
741829:US	53082946	R2WBR23EX55QVG	0399151079	804105086	The Cat Who Talked Turkey	Books	4	72	75	N	N	There But For The Feathers...	I'm not sure what is more embarrassing.  Admitting that I like Lilian Brown's the Cat Who... stories or confessing that I actually own all of them.  They really are pleasant reading - as long as you never try to read several in a row.  But we are long past the moment in time when a new reader is going to come into the series and feel the least bit of a connection.  To quote the prophet, 'You had to have been there...'<br />One of the more glaring problems with the latest novels it that they have become parodies of the cozy genre in which the belong.  They are sooo cozy that the books are hardly mysteries.  Instead, they are little pastiches of the adventures and foibles of their hero Qwilleran and his two dainty cats, the dainty Yum Yum and her psychic companion Ko Ko.  So the entire mystery here, which is about bodies cropping up and suspicious relatives, occupies a maximum of 30 of the book's 181 pages.<br />The rest is Qwill eating, feeding the cats, Qwill flirting with his steady Polly, feeding the cats, Qwill acting or writing, feeding the cats, calling wild turkeys, feeding the cats...  Well, you get what I mean.  Occasionally Ko Ko issues his death yowl and another unfortunate dies.  After which, Ko Ko pulls a book off the shelves as a clue.  And then even more feeding of the cats.<br />Obviously, you don't read these books because of their compelling, dark crimes or meaningful character development.  You read them to munch popcorn with or to lose an hour or two in a world even sillier than the one we live in.  Even so, I continue to like them in small doses.  I'm not sure if I can really explain why.  Now I have to go feed the cats...	2004-03-18
747185:US	53082946	R169Y1LZBIMOCZ	0451459482	993619620	Low Red Moon	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Oh What Is The Land Of Dreams...	When a psychic tracks down a serial killer and saves a victim most would call it a job well done.  But for Deacon Silvey it turns into a nightmare.  Asked to do a favor for the Birmingham police, Deacon becomes the target of a dark hunt, facing both the revenge of the old ones and the hopes of another killer to fulfill a dream of ascension.  Had he been the only target, Deacon might have been able to stand firm, but the demon with yellow eyes has a ritual to perform - on those that Deacon loves.<br />Deacon is an ex-alcoholic, trying to start a new life with Chance, his very pregnant young wife.  When he seeks help with the dark visions that have begun to plague him, death follows his trail.  Chance is a practical woman and a scientist - a paleontologist.  She barely believes in her husbands powers and now finds she is having visions of her own.  She is torn between her own bloody nightmares and her fears that Deacon will succumb to his own demons.  A deep wedge is being driven between them and only catastrophe can follow.<br />My first encounter with Caitlen Kiernan was Silk, her freshman novel.  While chilling and interesting in its own right, Silk pales beside Low Red Moon, Kiernan's third.  The events of this novel would be terrifying on their own, but Kiernan has learned to blend subconscious fears and a modern mythology with echoes of Lovecraft into a concoction as suspenseful and doom-filled as anything I've read in years.<br />Dream and reality crisscross in splashes of blood, characters refuse to follow any stereotype, and the Southern gothic horror story gets an infusion of new ideas.  Kiernan displays a command of language that transcends her chosen genre.  The reader, of course, is the beneficiary, nose buried in a book that is both too chilling to read and impossible to put down.  If this is your introduction to Kiernan, brace yourself, you will soon be hunting up everything she has written.	2004-03-14
757473:US	53082946	R14HD9943RSIZ2	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	&quot;Whatever it is you are going to do next, do it as you.&quot;	Terry Pratchett has been gradually shifting from the compination of linguistic slapstick and outrageous fantasy that marks most of his Discworld novels to a more balanced style of humor and greater focus on the content behind the give and take of his characters.  The Great Turtle gets no mention, and Death only gets bit parts.  I'm not going to claim that Night Watch is a deep study in evil or that Monstrous Regiment is a feminist anti-war novel, but each picks up the threads of real human issues in addition to the wry humor which is Pratcheets hallmark.<br />The story starts out with Polly Perks, who as the daughter of a stodgy family in the even stodgier country of Brogravia, stands to inherit nothing unless she can track down her brother, who has disappeared into Borogravia's constant wars.  This is no simple task in a society that worships Nuggan who has a habit of declaring things abominations.  Things like jigsaw puzzles, rocks, accordion players, and, of course, anything independent done by a woman.  Polly's solution - dress up as a man and enlist in the glorious Borogravian army.<br />Of course, nothing is ever as simple as it seems.  Polly, her fellow enlistees, gruff Sargeant Jackrum, and the overly optimistic Lieutenant Blouse find themselves embroiled in the dirty, icky parts of war, a war which, contrary to public statements, is going very poorly.  Gradually we discover (well, the title gives it away) that no one in this doughty group is what they seem.  We find ourselves partaking in one of those journeys where a group or rank amateurs struggle to succeed, and manage to give everyone else a black eye in the process.  Self-discovery with a wry twist.<br />War, when you are on the losing side, really is hell.  Maledict the vampire has given up blood for coffee, Carborundum the troll worries about his crags, and young Wazzer believes he is the conduit for The Duchess, a particularly powerless and unwilling nouveau goddess.  Role reversals happen every minute, and no one is sure who is wearing the socks in these thoroughly dysfunctional family.  But the characters gradually grow from hapless to self-determined, and the reader can't help but cheer them on.  And when all else fails, Igor can sew up the pieces.<br />In the process we get a rather candid display of Pratchett's own complicated views on military workings, the rigors of war and patriotism, and social attitudes towards women.  It's not that he forces anything down your throat, but while he is making you smile and laugh at things, he is also making you think about them, which is one of the things that separates Pratchett from run of the mill sarcasm.  Pratchett's facility with words, and his ability to draw memorable characters will once again win over the reader, as the have done countless times before.ute, and no one is sure who is wearing the socks in these thoroughly dysfunctional family.  But the characters gradually grow from hapless to self-determined, and the reader can't help but cheer them on.  And when all else fails, Igor can sew up the pieces.<br />In the process we get a rather candid display of Pratchett's own complicated views on military workings, the rigors of war and patriotism, and social attitudes towards women.  It's not that he forces anything down your throat, but while he is making you smile and laugh at things, he is also making you think about them, which is one of the things that separates Pratchett from run of the mill sarcasm.  Pratchett's facility with words, and his ability to draw memorable characters will once again win over the reader, as the have done countless times before.	2004-03-06
760389:US	53082946	RRS3KEABWLY1K	0441010814	428497699	The Gathering Dark (Peter Octavian)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Out Of The Shadows, Into The Sunlight	The Gathering Dark<br />Chris Golden came into his own writing Buffy the Vampire Slayer novels, but his body of work is considerably larger than that.  From teen thrillers like Body of Evidence to horror fiction as serious as the Shadow Saga, the trilogy on which The Gathering Dark is based.  While not entirely consistent, he often manages to combine good writing with some ingenious twists on the typical horror story.<br />In the alternate universe of The Gathering Dark, the world is recovering from a spiritual revolution that pitted the vampires against the increasing corruption of the Catholic Church.  Given the powers to prevent the encroachment of evil, the church had abused those abilities to their own advantage.  When vampires discovered that they had been brainwashed into believing that they would wilt in the sunshine and could not tolerate the holy they rose in opposition to the church and brought down the whole house of cards.<br />Unfortunately, The Gospel of Shadow, the grimoire that contained the secrets of preventing demonic incursions, was lost during the struggle.  Now the weakened church struggled to undo the damage, vampires are hunted by the United Nations and the world trembles on the edge of a long descent into darkness.  Now Peter Octavian, no longer a vampire but a powerful mage is all that that is left that can prevent an evil power from drawing the earth into its realm.<br />Octavian is aided by an unlikely crew.  Nikki, a rock singer, Keomany, confectionary and earth witch, and Jack Devlin, a priest who cannot stand what his church has become are the humans.  Kurumaku, an ancient samurai, and Allison, who hunts her own kind, are the vampires.  This rag tag crew must come face to face with a creature that Octavian has named the Tatterdemalion.  An evil from another dimension entirely that is sucking whole cities into a deadly world of its own contriving.<br />Like The Shadow Saga before it, The Gathering Dark is Chris Golden at his best - writing a complex tale that is part horror story and part a journey of discovery for its characters.  Golden, by completely changing the vampire model creates a framework that is interesting on its own, with the kind of implications that invite even more volumes in the series.  The Gathering Dark stands well on its own, but just enough loose ends remain to continue the weave.  With the reader to reap the benefits.ting a complex tale that is part horror story and part a journey of discovery for its characters.  Golden, by completely changing the vampire model creates a framework that is interesting on its own, with the kind of implications that invite even more volumes in the series.  The Gathering Dark stands well on its own, but just enough loose ends remain to continue the weave.  With the reader to reap the benefits.	2004-03-03
767435:US	53082946	R4ZIE3DMQRYGZ	0743233468	912119362	Bare Bones: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	4	32	34	N	Y	Hands Accross the Grave	This is another of Kathy Reichs painstakingly plotted stories about Dr. Temperance Brennan, who like the author, manages to be a forensic anthropologist practicing in both Montreal and Charlotte, North Carolina.  This time Brennan is in Charlotte, coping with a burnt newborn infant, an unusual plane crash, bones in the privy, and a whole host of other misadventures that spell trouble no matter how you arrange them.  To make things more complicated, Brennan is spending time with Andrew Ryan, a detective with the Montreal police.  And lest I forget, Katy, her daughter is in love, and Temperance isn't sure if it's her intuition or mother hen instincts, but she is not completely sure of the suitor.<br />Typical of Reichs, she gradually weaves these disparate threads together into a tightly linked whole, climaxing in an ending which isn't completely surprising, but which takes the reader through a bit of a rollercoaster rider on the way to the conclusion.  Also typical of the writer, there are countless tiny forensic details to distract, baffle, and, eventually, illuminate the reader.  Of course, people who read forensic mystery stories dote on details, and Temperance Brennan seems to have a library full of unusual information<br />This story has a bit more action in it than is the norm for Reichs.  It is so complicated that Brennan is perpetually changing scenes and crimes.  The effect is to make the story interesting, although just a mite too hard to follow.  The advancing love interest gives the tale an interesting spin.  Her feelings for Ryan have never been particularly secret, but they come pretty much out of the closet in this story.  I can't say that I personally enjoy all of Tempe's admiration for her handsome lover, but the relationship never becomes the driving force behind the story, as it has with other authors..<br />Reichs has always been compared to Pat Cornwell, and, despite obvious differences, appeals equally to the same audiences.  Cornwell's fault was that she fell into the trap of making her character into the plot to the exclusion of the real plot.  So far, Reichs has managed to avoid that pitfall while still managing to make Temperance Brennan into a real person.  Hopefully she will keep this up, and we won't have to cope with the litany of woes that followed Kay Scarpetta.s that she fell into the trap of making her character into the plot to the exclusion of the real plot.  So far, Reichs has managed to avoid that pitfall while still managing to make Temperance Brennan into a real person.  Hopefully she will keep this up, and we won't have to cope with the litany of woes that followed Kay Scarpetta.	2004-02-27
773296:US	53082946	R1RBAYZZMBYKBP	0743427718	271174018	Mortal Fear (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The New Age Of A Dawn	Season Seven must present some extraordinary difficulties to the scribes of the Buffyverse.  While the names are the same, almost every character has no resemblance to their original appearances before Season 4.  Problems of character development are complicated by having to ride shotgun on an underlying story that resembles a Chinese fire drill.  That the Ciencins have managed to overcome the dangers of plot drift and produce a coherent and even original story is a compliment to their skills.<br />Taking advantage of the frayed nerves of all the season 7 Scooby-ites a mysterious mage named Simon manages to trick Buffy into collecting the bits and pieces of a magical sword that, naturally, could bring about the end of life as we know it.  As part of the scheme he unleashes a weird magical nanovirus that completely erases fear as well as any compunction to do good.  The big victims are Xander, Willow and Dawn (not that Dawn ever needed an excuse to be obnoxious).  These three become part of the overall scheme as well as a means to torment our humble Slayer.<br />Well written, and tightly plotted despite its length, Mortal Fear is one of the better Buffy books to appear in the past year or so.  Even so, there are a few devices that stretch ones ability to believe.  Especially what has happened to Willow.  While the idea is not original to the Ciencin's, I find the device of a split personality Willow a bit tedious.  After all, the is only one Willow - one whose naturally sweet nature is unable to contain her anger when her world falls apart.  This is a natural, human thing - only larger than life because of Willow's powers.  I find Willow-in-denial a bit hard to accept.  On the other hand, Xander's anger at Buffy may be irrational, but it is appropriate to the character.  And, as I've mentions Dawn was already irritating, so her characterization here is exactly right.<br />Almost every other character puts in a spot appearance as Sunnydale once again starts to slip into chaos.  Once again (for the umpteenth time) Buffy must handle the impossible and save the world.  There is a part of me that misses the old Buffy, when the stories were mostly about finding an killing vampires.  Yet we all know that Buffy's attraction is that it is far more than hacking and staking.  Mortal Fear manages to tread the same thin line between horror and comedy that the best of the TV show does.  Certainly worth reading if you are a fan.into chaos.  Once again (for the umpteenth time) Buffy must handle the impossible and save the world.  There is a part of me that misses the old Buffy, when the stories were mostly about finding an killing vampires.  Yet we all know that Buffy's attraction is that it is far more than hacking and staking.  Mortal Fear manages to tread the same thin line between horror and comedy that the best of the TV show does.  Certainly worth reading if you are a fan.	2004-02-23
776745:US	53082946	RMT5H0V4VC6YN	074400327X	175487591	.hack(tm) Part 4: Quarantine Official Strategy Guide (Bradygames Take Your Games Further)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Never Mess With An A:rd*a Fe/th&amp;r	This isn't the first time, and I doubt it will be the last, where I point out that an excellent strategy guide is wasted on the game.  In this case it depends on whether you entered the series at Part 4, or if you have been playing all along and started right out with a very high or maxxed out level.  For high ranking characters, .hack//QUARANTINE is something of a cakewalk and play will be pretty linear.  In that case, the guide will help you find some of the secrets, but there is nothing difficult enough to merit the guide's blow by blow support.<br />If you are new to the game the reverse is true.  Each time you play the main story line you are going to find yourself facing some pretty fierce opposition.  In this case, the guide is a game-saver.  There arfe maps, combatant suggestions, and very detailed discussions of each of the bosses.  And some other valuable tidbits as well.  In this case the guide is well worth the price.<br />This guide is in exactly the same format as the previous guides in this series.  Well made and illustrated, it will stand up to the frantic pawing which is the usual approach when you are in the middle of battle and out of your depth.  It won't make the struggle any easier, but you will at least understand why you are getting pummeled.  There are a couple of errors, but nothing that will interfere your progress.	2004-02-21
782862:US	53082946	R2FNIQPM66YOSW	0440237246	483714914	Area 51: Nosferatu	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Vampires From Outer Space	Or maybe that should be &quot;Vampires Whose Parents are From Outer Space and Have Molded Human History for the Past 10,000 Years.&quot;  Or...  Well, you get the message.  This is a concoction of alien invasion and Dracula, which, fortunately, was written by an author capable of making a story enjoyable reading even when it is completely unbelievable.<br />This is the eighth in Robert Doherty's Area 51 series, and in many ways, it is one of the best.  The original series, up through The Truth, suffers from the persistence of the characters.  Doherty's forte is not character development, and one can only stand a character endlessly repeating the same behaviors for a certain length of time.  With Nosferatu, we get an entirely new case, human and Airlia scion included.<br />The Airlia, we discover, bred with humans to create a hybrid that they could use as blood bags.  Having only half Airlia blood, they could provide nourishment to their masters while feeding on humans.  There are very few of these 'vampires,' all kept in the complex under Giza and the pyramids.  During a revolt, Nosferatu, Vampyr, and Nekhbet manage to escape.  By dint of determination and the ability to sleep for thousands of years.  Nosferatu and Vampyr manage to outlast the Airlia gods.  Nekhbet was injured in the escape and cannot be awakened until a new supply of Airlia blood is found.  Nosferatu is the one that loves her, but Vampyr seeks only one thing - revenge for what the Airlia and their human servants have done.<br />Gradually the story moved into the present, making a shambles of much of human history in the process.  Doherty has a tendency to explain everything that ever happened as the result of the interference of the Airlia and the vampires.  Personally, I find this excessive, but Doherty manages to keep this from becoming a show stopper, weaving everything together into an effort that is completely satisfactory.  The only other flaw is that the conclusion is rushed mercilessly.  This isn't a gradually build-up, but a sudden shift of gears.  Unwarned, the reader is suddenly in the middle of the conclusion without the necessary mental preparation.<br />Still, a good story, even if it lacks greatness.  Most people don't expect alien invations to be great literature (despite some glaring exceptions).  What they do expect is suspense and entertainment, and these are the core of Doherty's success.  This story can be treated as a stand-alone effort, but reading the preceding volumes will enhance the readers understanding of the baroque infrastructure underlying this tale.is isn't a gradually build-up, but a sudden shift of gears.  Unwarned, the reader is suddenly in the middle of the conclusion without the necessary mental preparation.<br />Still, a good story, even if it lacks greatness.  Most people don't expect alien invations to be great literature (despite some glaring exceptions).  What they do expect is suspense and entertainment, and these are the core of Doherty's success.  This story can be treated as a stand-alone effort, but reading the preceding volumes will enhance the readers understanding of the baroque infrastructure underlying this tale.	2004-02-16
788120:US	53082946	RQ0WUC20HZ49Z	1582343594	274813739	City of Masks: A Cree Black Novel	Books	5	55	57	N	Y	Family Spirit	I bought 'City of Masks' based on a new release description expecting a standard fare ghost story (which I like), read the inside cover and thought it was a ghost romance story (which I don't like) and came very close to putting it on my 'read someday' pile.  Fortunately I didn't.  While it is a little of both of the above, it is quite a bit more as well,  For the mystery reader looking for something both unusual and a little scary, Daniel Hecht has turned out a solid, entertaining read.<br />Cree Black is one of a team of spiritual investigators who specialize in ghost removal.  She is a clinical psychologist who discovered during a terrible loss that ghosts exist and she is sensitive to them.  This sensitivity extends to those who are haunted as well, and Cree's exorcisms are often intense personal crises.  When she responds to the call of a socially prominent New Orleans family who is being haunted by a violent and menacing spirit she quickly is up to her neck in tradition and ectoplasm.<br />A pig headed ghost repeatedly molests a woman in a family mansion, a news reported dies without any explanation, and the head of a family finds herself desperately trying to preserve what honor and sanity are left for her heirs.  Hecht's style bores deep into all the main characters, but deepest into the heart of Cree, whose own ghosts have brought her life to a standstill.  To solve the mystery of the apparitions she will have to start the tortuous journey of unraveling her own issues.<br />Hecht accomplishes this without histrionics.  Without overpainting the atmospherics and real violence that lurks beneath the surface of New Orleans and the Mardi Gras.  The end result is a novel so believable that you sometimes want to take notes.  Many of the characters, sympathetic and otherwise, quickly take on a life of their own against a finely drawn background of wealth and poverty in Louisiana.  I believe Hecht has written a sequel, to which I am looking forward.	2004-02-12
799520:US	53082946	RNCOUS528AVTS	0156198207	325337300	The Complete Poems of Cavafy: Expanded Edition	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The Torment of Presence	I first encountered Cavafy as the writer ofa grim little poem called 'The City' - &quot;You will find no new lands, you will find no other seas.  The city will follow you.&quot;  This bleak essay is the incarnation of the hopelessness of noir writing, and so my formative opinion of Cavafy perceived him as something much difference from what he is.  Even though the bleak and an atmosphere of despair frequently haunt his efforts.<br />It was only in later study, after realizing that my 'secret' poet was actually one of the foremost of modern Greek poets.  One who, despite the difficulties in the translation of his poems has had an influence well beyond the barriers of language.  Cavafy habitually used to forms of Greek, demotic and purist, to carry out his devices.  He writes plainly, with little or no metaphor or simile, but what makes his poems poetry is largely untranslatable.  Yet, as one reads through his work in English translation, there are countless moments when something grabs your attention.<br />W. H. Auden, who wrote the introduction, attributes this to Cafavy's uniqueness, which somehow differentiates him from everyone else at the same time as it creates a connection.  I find that reading Cavafy in translation is a bit like having a conversation with someone who has a very interesting way of expressing himself.  His subjects are most often his own sensuality and the nature of the human state as a part of the old world of Greek history.  But whether he is working within the parameters of his own homosexuality, or pondering the state of Demetrius Soter, Cafavy rarely fails to his home.<br />If you are looking to expand poetic horizons from an unexpected perspective, or smply enjoy verse that brings you up short and makes you think, there is much here for your reading.  You will find Cavafy work easily accessible a valuable addition to the contemplatives library.	2004-02-04
803916:US	53082946	R13CSGR2QYD95D	0805241892	572170437	The Rebbe's Army: Inside the World of Chabad-Lubavitch	Books	5	73	77	N	N	Waking the Talk	I grew up in what was probably a typical mid-century Jewish family - both parents raised in the U.S. and thoroughly Americanized.  A secular conservative household.  I received a fairly typical religious education for that time and culture - the minimum necessary.  In retrospect, I probably learned more about Judaism after I left home than I did before.  For Jews such as me, the world of Hasidism - intensely and often excitedly religious - is often something mysterious.  As well as a source of guilt when we compare it to out own wobbly religious observance.  Most of my acquaintance with the thinking of the Hasid, and with the Lubavitch movement in particular, is bookish, rather than experiential.<br />Which is why I was delighted with Sue Fishkoff's &quot;The Rebbe's Army,&quot; a close and honest look at the Lubavitchers as a social and cultural phenomenon.  She is a well respected member of the Jewish Press who has taken the time to pick up the threads of this small but influential group who gently, but persistently work not to broaden Judaism, but to deepen it.  In countless cities both here and abroad are the slichim - young couples who leave the comfort and shelter of their own religious center in Brooklyn to seek to re-establish the traditional core of Judaism.  This is their story.<br />While strictly ultra-orthodox, the Lubavitch have created an outreach program that manages to touch not only Jews of every religious bent, but the non-Jewish community as well.  Most often, they arrive as stranger but stay to become dear friends.  Fishkoff who has traveled extensively in this world writes more about their experiences and lives than about the specific tenets of their beliefs.  She does so in a non-judgmental but sympathetic fashion, finding much to admire, but not shying away from the conflicts and struggles.<br />Don't come to this book expecting a history or a critique.  This is pure descriptive journalism.  Deep in its coverage, but not burdened by excess analysis.  The final judgments are left up to the reader, who has been given the gift of insight into a rich world of strong principles and a determination to live them out.  As such, she has bridged the suspicion gap with a clear, accessible volume that will open far more doors than it closes.alysis.  The final judgments are left up to the reader, who has been given the gift of insight into a rich world of strong principles and a determination to live them out.  As such, she has bridged the suspicion gap with a clear, accessible volume that will open far more doors than it closes.	2004-01-31
807878:US	53082946	RNRYDF8DT9KU8	0744002907	59266319	Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time(tm) Official Strategy Guide (Signature Series)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	One Great Leap for Mankind...	The Sands of Time is a puzzle game with few real puzzles.  Instead the problem to be solved is architecture - how one accomplishes the apparently impossible task of getting from on place to another.  You have a simple palette of actions from which to draw, and are often leaping into space with a wing and a prayer.  For the player who runs up and down walls, bouncing from point to point there is an exhilaration that can only be compared with flying.<br />Unfortunately, for the beginner faced with a monumental task there can be a lot of frustration.  The game provides a quick flash of hints, and then you are on your own.  Thanks to the built in replay facility one can try different solutions until the answer materializes, but every once in a while the right sequence simply eludes us.<br />This guide is for those moments.  It provides a lucid, brief walkthrough with illustrations and maps.  While the maps are sometimes hard to read, and the screen shots too tiny, I only found one play where the suggestions just didn't seem to gel.  I had to resort to random action, but eventually did find that the guide had been correct, but elusive.  I like the guide's style, which focuses on what is necessary and sufficient rather than trying to be a souvenir.<br />If you are having trouble, or just want to get the Prince aloft as quickly as possible, this is the resource for you.	2004-01-28
811278:US	53082946	R1Z5FZRNL1YBA7	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	4	19	23	N	Y	Elvis the Vampire???	Elvis the Vampire???<br />This is the third volume in Charlaine Harris's series about Sookie, a rural Southern telepath and her vampire boyfriend Bill.  At the start of this series Harris started out by breaking several vampire story taboos.  For one thing, Sookie is just-plain-folks, who happens to have an inconvenient talent and an odd boyfriend.  In Harris' alternate reality the invention of artificial blood has enables vampires to come out of the coffin.  In the U.S. especially, they are trying to enter mainstream society - with mixed success.<br />Sookie's wry, humorous story-telling shows us what happens to someone who has one foot in both the human and the supernatural world.  Vampires and werewolves traipse thought this story with all the grace of a road crew - frequently leaving Sookie upset, angry, and just a little bit trashed.  Not all vampires are willing to give up their old ways, and the conflicts this creates are the meat of Harris' stories.<br />This time, Bill has disappeared while working on a vampire data base for the Queen of Louisiana.  She discovers that Bill left to start up an affair with an old vampire lover, who then sold him out to a competing vampire clan.  Sookie sets out to rescue Bill with the aid of Alcide - a werewolve in the construction business.  The interplay between Sookie's anger at Bill and her attraction to Alcide (and Eric, yet another vampire) make this a romantically complicated story.  While there is plenty of action, it clearly takes second place to the emotional content, and suffers from a bit of discontinuity as a result.<br />While the story is quite enjoyable, it is a far cry from standard vampire fare.  In addition, the complex relationship between a human, a werewolf, and a vampire - with the required graphic bits - echoes Laurell Hamilton's plots a bit too much.  Although no one would mistake Hamilton's writing style for Harris'.  They are differnet, but there are moments when I think that someone may be trying to convince Harris to to make Sookie Stackhaouse a bit too much like Anita Blake.  I hope not - Club Dead is a delightful confection.  It provides some needed light entertainment in the usually dark morass of vampire fiction.o convince Harris to to make Sookie Stackhaouse a bit too much like Anita Blake.  I hope not - Club Dead is a delightful confection.  It provides some needed light entertainment in the usually dark morass of vampire fiction.	2004-01-26
815159:US	53082946	R3RBCKFSE4CMGN	1593270291	832905889	Hacking the Xbox: An Introduction to Reverse Engineering	Books	5	57	60	N	N	Gentlemen, Start Your Soldering Irons...	I bought this book, probably as most people do, out of an interest in getting into my Xbox from a software viewpoint.  I wound up enjoying it from an entirely different viewpoint - the insights into the obscure process of hardware hacking that people like Andrew Huang love to do.  In the process I gained considerable respect for Microsoft's ability to protect their investment in what has become the number two console in the game world.<br />To put this in context, the Xbox is really a full fledged PC, repackaged and sealed up with security to prevent game copying and to stop buyers from turning in into the ultimate cheap computer.  Microsoft sells the Xbox considerably below manufacturing cost, using it as a loss leader to sell games.  The last thing they want is for everyone to turn the Xbox into $150 computers.  Hackers like Huang saw the opportunity to do exactly that and began the ultimate adventure a trip into the devious mind of Microsoft's engineers.  Every bit as exciting as the latest game disk.<br />This is both the story of that effort - the creation of a fully functional Linux computer and a fascinating training manual on what actually goes into the hardware hacking process.  Huang understands full well the danger that he might go over the heads of his readers and makes every effort to explain exactly what is going on.  He has a lucid, self-effacing style that is like a geek chat session.  For someone like me, who started out with a pile of 'chips' and a breadboard, and then graduated to 16 Kilobyte memory boards it is pure fun to see what has happened in the past 40 years.<br />I also was astonished at the ingenious subterfuges Microsoft used to hide the Xbox's innards from casual observers.  For those who always are critical of Microsoft's capabilities, this is a lesson in hubris.  Huang proves that the time honored traditions of hacking as a way to learn and grow still exist, and that not everyone with a soldering iron is out to bring the Internet down.  This is probably the most technically informative book I've read in the past 10 years.  If you are a 'gotta know' kind of person, this is a must have book.n.  This is probably the most technically informative book I've read in the past 10 years.  If you are a 'gotta know' kind of person, this is a must have book.	2004-01-23
827872:US	53082946	R3MXK72R76O8C4	058602705X	37257109	Intimate Journals (A Panther book)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	&quot;Man is an animal which adores&quot;	Living from 1821 to 1867, primarily in Paris.  Charles Baudelaire was his centuries poet of discontent.  Religious, blasphemous, elitist and anti-snob, all at once, he seemed from the start to be a life driven to self-destruction.  Absinthe, opium, and a mistress were his only relief.  And in the end, the were what killed him.  The epitome of the tortured soul.<br />Most of us know of him now only by reputation, or from exposure to Fleurs du Mal.  That thin volume of poetry has had an influence far beyond it's size.  In many ways, Baudelaire was one of the beat generation's greatest precursors.<br />The Intimate Journals is actually a collection of three sets of papers that frame the final years of Baudelaire's excruciating journey.  They are the notes of a man who faced financial and physical ruin and yet still kept up his piercing intellect.  In it you will find short notes essays about his world, society, and philosophy.<br />This isn't poetry, but a direct look into the inner thinking of a poet who is often written off as the perfect degenerate.  Intimate Journals offers an opportunity to re-evaluate Baudelaire as both a man and a writer, whose thinking is equally compelling a century and a half later.<br />The preface written by translator Christopher Isherwood, and W. H. Auden's introduction are brilliant on their own as well (T. S. Eliot wrote the original introduction for the first edition).	2004-01-14
828354:US	53082946	R18Q8K9HIP79ND	0786710853	332353767	What You Wish For (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Hunt Revisited	What You Wish For picks up its characters and themes from one of David Cray's earlier efforts - Little Girl Blue.  Peter Foley, an ex-cop turned crusader who hunts throught the underground world of child abuse seeking his kidnapped daughter and whatever justice he can extract from the monstous evil he sees.  And Julia Brennan, not promoted to Captain of the Sex Crimes Unit, who is learning to navigate the difficult waters of police politics while fielding a case where the perpetrator gives in too easily.<br />While the two story arcs in the book run independently, the lives of Brennan and Foley meet and touch at all levels, their seperate quests stress the relationship, but somehow fail to break it.  Even when Foley distances himself to protect Julia from the effects of his investigation and she becomes so wrapped up in her own hunt that she barely notices that Foley hasn't returned her calls.  One of Cray's more interesting approaches is to let his main characters have lives that share commonality and values but can proceed independently when needed.<br />Julia's case, the effort to solve the violent murder of an elderly, wealthy, and unpleasant woman offers a unique focus on a part of investigation that is usually slighted in procedurals - the questioning of a suspect.  This is a world of subtle clues and sometimes not-so-subtle techniques and Cray does a great job of portraying the process.  He captures both the gripping and tedious elements of the process graphically.<br />Foley's hunt is on it's last stretch.  He has found a porno video in which his daughter appears.  He pursues one faint clue after another with little regard for 'correct' procedure - always nearly out of control, and can cross the boundary without warning.  In the end he must confront a fathers worst nightmare - his own insecurity about whether finding his daughter might be worse than not finding her.<br />While Cray often borders on writing a noir novel, he never quite crosses over into that territory.  Instead he distracts the reader from the grim nature of the crimes with a flurry of details.  While the overall writing of the story is excellent, sometimes this device produces more confusion than intensity, especially when the book is really two unrelated stories about related characters.  It would have been more satisfactory has there been a closer connection, or if the conflict had produced more of a clash of wills.<br />Even so this was a readable and interesting book, but a bit more loosely written than I would have liked it to be.  The focus is diffuse, but the subject matter is compelling.  Recommended.territory.  Instead he distracts the reader from the grim nature of the crimes with a flurry of details.  While the overall writing of the story is excellent, sometimes this device produces more confusion than intensity, especially when the book is really two unrelated stories about related characters.  It would have been more satisfactory has there been a closer connection, or if the conflict had produced more of a clash of wills.  <br />Even so this was a readable and interesting book, but a bit more loosely written than I would have liked it to be.  The focus is diffuse, but the subject matter is compelling.  Recommended.	2004-01-13
831572:US	53082946	RT0JAXWA8N0TL	0744003407	952288789	Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne Official Strategy Guide	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Blow-By-Blow Depression	Reviewing a strategy guide for a game you are lukewarm about is one of those piquant experiences.  Especially when the guide is better than the game.  Unfortunately, Max Payne 2 failed to grab me.  I didn't find it particularly difficult either.  If you go everywhere and try everything you will eventually figure everything out.  Except for maybe the last 15 minutes.<br />So here is a guide, put together by Tim Bogenn, that is a clear, easy to use walkthrough.  One could almost fault it for a lack of emphasis on strategy, since it simply tells you what to do each step of the way.  The only source of confusion is that Begenn chose not to provide maps, and sometimes the pictures aren't as graphic as they should be.<br />But if you need a guide, this will carry you through.  It includes information on the advanced modes and weapons as well.  Since there are exactly 12 weapons there really isn't anything left out.  So this is a first for me - a five star rating for a guide to a game which I only gave 3 stars.  Go figure!	2004-01-11
839483:US	53082946	R18KY53ASE43TF	0446532215	815601065	The Elder Gods: Book One of the Dreamers (DREAMERS, BK 1)	Books	3	31	40	N	Y	Time For a Change	I've been an Eddings fan all the way back to the days when only one of them was writing. I dearly remember the first two series - The Belgariad, The Malloreon, and the Elenium.  If you liked slow moving but well plotted, tongue in cheek stories with quirky, well-developed characters, it was hard to beat Eddings.  Since those days, however, output has slowed down considerably and the writers, seems stuck - more focused on style than plot.  I was hoping that The Dreamers would be the series to signal a new taking off point, but I'm afraid this is not quite to be.<br /><br />Let me state right out that I don't believe the addition of Leigh is what caused the problem.  More than likely she is the source of what is novel about this story of four gods that are anxiously trying to keep their part of the world from falling under the spell of a mass mind called the Vlagh.  It is the end of a divine cycle and these four are at their weakest, preparing to be replaced by their alternates for the next eon or two.<br /><br />Each of the deities sets out to recruit mercenaries to the defense of Dhrall.  In general they appeal to greed as a motivation.  While none of them have any particular need for wealth, one goddess, Velana, seems to have a knack for accumulating it.  In short order Trogites and Maags, are united with the Dhrall tribes in a war that starts out deceptively easy and then takes a mean turn when they discover that the Vlagh has developed unexpected subtleties over the millennia.<br /><br />The characters are classic Eddings' characters.  If you have been a long time reader, though, then you will notice that they are a bit too similar, and that they are beginning to tell the same old jokes.  In addition, the plot doesn't quite leap up and grab the reader the way it did ten volumes ago.<br /><br />Personally, I still enjoyed the book, but it never grabbed me.  It would not surprise me to find that people who are new to these authors or less familiar with the older work are going to wonder that all the to do is about.  Hopefully the series will improve as it progresses through what currently appears to be four volumes.  Nothing would please me more than to see the Eddings writing at full strength again.  They have lightened many an hour.the to do is about.  Hopefully the series will improve as it progresses through what currently appears to be four volumes.  Nothing would please me more than to see the Eddings writing at full strength again.  They have lightened many an hour.	2004-01-05
843164:US	53082946	R57M517UJ1IYE	159182415X	36583863	.hack//Legend of the Twilight, Vol. 2	Books	4	11	12	N	N	.hack jr.	Volume two of the manga series picks up two themes that appear in other .hacl media, with a twist, of course.  Shugo finds his own aura look-alike - Zefie.  Unlike Aura, Zefie has a strong personality that makes several members of the team, particularly Reina, uncomfortable around her.  Vagrant AI like Zefie are rare, and their behavior is unpredictable.  She turns out to have some surprising powers.<br />The presence of Zefie and Shugo's bracelet cause a stir back in the management of The World.  Sure enough, a new version of the Crimson Knights, now the Cobalt Knights appear on the scene, led by Kamui Shibayama.  They are corporate, not volunteer, and carry out a policy of &quot;if you can't control it - delete it.&quot;  In no time at all they are at odds with Shugo and Reina.<br />Of all the .hack genre, I find the manga the most disappointing so far.  The story is pitched at a much younger audience than the 13+ that it is marked.  It is a replay of several of the original .hack themes set several years after the other storys are completed.  So while this series is a pleasant read, it doesn't live up to the almost introspective approach that even the game uses.  Nor does it reflect any more light on the series as a whole.<br />.hack fans will want the manga series on general principles, but for the casually interested, the anime series is a better introductions.  That or the game itself.	2004-01-03
845717:US	53082946	R23J3CPOJHRIJ2	0744002915	848264020	Beyond Good and Evil(TM) Official Strategy Guide (Bradygames Take Your Games Further)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Good but...	There are some games that pretty much play themselves.  As far as primary objectives go, Beyond Good and Evil is one of them.  The game is good, but the puzzles are relatively uncomplicated for a stealth based game, and fighting is just as straightforward.  In this context, it's fair to ask what purpose a strategy guide serves.  Sarcasm aside, the top answer has to be that it is a cool souvenir.<br />Well, there are some other things.  The walkthrough will get you photos of all the creatures needed for the subquest, and that is an important source of early game cash.  Since there aren't dependable sources of income that is a valuable service.  Ditto for making sure you find all the pearls lying about.  But, for the most part, this is a well-written, intelligent guide for a game that doesn't need one.<br />Oddly enough, this is one of the best practical guides I've seen this year.  It sticks to providing a clear, timely walkthrough with a minimum of fluff, fan service shots of Jade, or extended biographies of momentary characters.  The big, overdone 300 page monstrosities that pass for strategy guides should only be this good.  Whether you want this guide will depend on if you really want to accomplish everything there is to accomplish.  If you do, then this guide really will help you track down those last elusive clues.	2004-01-01
849618:US	53082946	R1PHL8UERIKY1O	0689860145	135083040	Seven Crows  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Six Vampires, Five Werewolves, and a Partridge in a...	Riley Finn and his wife and fellow agent Sam find themselves out of their depth.  Illegal immigrants are being eaten, drugs are being imported, and the local law has managed to get them called off the case.  The solution is to hire a couple of mercenaries.  Actually, Sam hires Angel and Riley hires Buffy - creating ome of the more awkward reunions in the history of Verdura, New Mexico.<br />Soon all four are scouring both sides of the border trying to track down a pair of vampires while being harassed by a sheriff who knows exactly what Angel is and doesn't much care for it.  But nobody is quite sure what the sheriff is, only that he is somehow tangled up in a suspicious land deal.  Thus we have all the makings of a classical occult western soap opera starring two of our favorite destroyers of bad guys.  How can we lose.<br />Well, we don't lose, but John Vornholt never quite gets the sparks to fly in traditional Angel/Buffy style.  The reader keeps expecting something to explode, and instead, the plot continues its merry way with scarcely a ripple.  In truth, this story could just as easily have starred any four people and been just as good.  But by using this particular cast Vornholt raises expectations and then doesn't follow through.<br />Still, there is nothing inherently wrong with the story itself.  It starts with an interesting premise about alternate uses for illegal immigrants, although I would have liked a bit more detail on the skinwalker side of the story.  Vornholt has been a successful Star Trek novelist for some time now, and may simply need to get his bearings a bit better in the wild world of Buffy.	2003-12-29
851711:US	53082946	R2GZ33EXGBLZ5Z	0060567635	649211130	Amano: The Complete Prints of Yoshitaka Amano	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Visions of Grace	Yoshitaka Amano has played an active part in Japanese illustration from 60's to present times.  He has lived through Anime, game design, illustration, and now printmaking - demonstrating at each stopping point a variety of imagination that has had an impact far beyond his own successes in Japanese visual art..<br />In the U.S. he is best known for Vampire Hunter D, the conceptual design behind the Final Fantasy series, and several recent collaborations with Neil Gaiman.  But as this book quickly reveals, Yoshitaka has great power as a pure illustrator and artist.  His roots are in Art Nouveau and the psychedelic styling of the 1960's, but he combines this with a mastery of Japanese traditional styles to produce a variety of effects and images.<br />This is a focused collection of just his prints, both those done for graphic novels and anime, as well as completely independent work.  There are 192 pages page sized illustration followed by a large illustrated catalog of the rest of his print output.  A final commentary by Hiroshi Unno completes the work.  The most notable missing work is from the Final Fantasy series, none of which ever appeared as prints.  However, the originality of what is included far outweighs any regrets about any unfortunate gaps.<br />A word of warning.  Collections of Yoshitaka's work have a tendency to go out of print and disappear irretrievably.  I have lived to rue not making several purchases when I had the opportunity.  If you would like a representative collection of what made Yoshitaka Amano one of Japan's most formidable illustrators, this is a good selection at a very digestible price, with no sacrifice of quality.  To have more at present, means searching out work that is out of print.  Seize the opportunity.	2003-12-28
854636:US	53082946	ROTELUEZ9VJ3U	0486409554	698668458	The Development of Arthurian Romance	Books	5	7	8	N	N	From the Beginning	Roger Sherman Loomis is probably the doyen of Arthurian scholars.  He has written countless works on the subject, and has made a name for himself as an academic who has a very clear picture of what is fact, what is legend, and what is fantasy.  And in the realm of Arthurian scholarship there is no more important differentiation to make.  For the student trying to make sense of the stories of a 6th Century chieftain and the legacy of legend and story that follow him about life without Loomis would be 'through a glass, darkly.'<br />Loomis features completeness, an unbiased approach, and a lucid writing style that brings the confusion into focus.  I have several of Loomis's more scholarly works (most of which have sadly gone out of print) but this is really the most accessible of the bunch.  Keep in mind, though, that this is still intended for students of the subject rather than for those seeking popular treatments.  It provides much material for thought, and many pointers to other sources that might interest the reader.	2003-12-24
857005:US	53082946	RC84C073RSGKC	074400330X	340860363	Castlevania: Lament of Innocence(tm) Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Three Whips Are Better Than One	While Lament of Innocence is a game where the puzzles and bosses aren't particularly hard to figure out, it is comforting to have a guide in hand, if for no other reason than to have useful information out where you can see it.  And for me, there are always a couple of occasions where I'm staring at the screen wondering what the point is behind a particular circumstance, and a guide keeps me from going of on a tangent.<br />This is a sensibly written guide that takes the player through a possible line of play which assures that the player will see all the sights, get all the items, and stand a reasonable change of defeating all the bosses.  It doesn't spend a lot of time on lavish illustration or unnecessary detail either.  Personally, I prefer this style.  There has been a trend towards 300 page guides that are harder to use than the game is to play.  That isn't the case here.<br />It's arguable that Lament doesn't really need a guide, but I find that a good guide reduces the frustration level and enhances overall enjoyment.  This effort by Laura Parkinson does exactly that.  Especially for someone who is still getting used to the genre.	2003-12-22
861934:US	53082946	REV1T3H02VBDA	0446531421	432548907	Still Life with Crows (Pendergast, Book 4)	Books	4	38	41	N	Y	From All the Hiding Places	This is the fourth book by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child in which FBI Special Agent Prendergast has played a special role.  In the last book (The Cabinet of Curiosities) he has been promoted to a main character.  Prendergast is an almost over-cultured southern gentleman who is almost a classic model of the aesthete.  He has an irritating superciliousness and an unorthodox approach that inevitably puts him at odds with the powers that be.<br />In Still Life With Crows, an intriguing series of killings draws Prendergast to the little town of Medicine Creek, Kansas.  The killings are bizarre - a dead woman arranged in a ring of valuable arrows, a dog killed just for its tail, disemboweled and stuffed corpses.  Equally eerie are the towns old legends of the Curse of the Forty-fives - a story of a ghostly band of Indians that arose from nowhere and killed the white men who were hunting them.<br />Prendergast inserts himself in the investigation, drafting Corrie Swanson, the town's sole Goth and trouble-maker as his chauffer and assistant.  An unlikely relationship that grows slowly as Corrie's suspicions relax, almost stealing center stage from the murders.<br />As they have done repeatedly, Preston and Child demonstrate excellent story-telling skills building both characters and tension, filling a plot with details, creating a horror story out of cornrows and stalactites.  They do have one habitual flaw, though.  By halfway through the book the reader can make an intelligent guess about the nature of the murderer.  Identity and motive are still a mystery, but the writers simply drop too many hints.  They try to make up for this by using the last 100 pages for a frantic, high tension pursuit, but some damage cannot be undone.<br />Of course, this flaw is forgivable because Preston and Child are high quality writers.  If you like both mystery and suspense, then you may not even notice the problem.  I lean more towards the puzzle solving aspects, and so feel the solution shouldn't have been as obvious as it was.  Regardless of this, I enjoyed the book, as will all but the true sticklers for deductive fiction.on shouldn't have been as obvious as it was.  Regardless of this, I enjoyed the book, as will all but the true sticklers for deductive fiction.	2003-12-17
872843:US	53082946	R19OV47QCYINMJ	044101108X	329819502	Heroes (Laws of the Blood, Book 5)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	What to do when your heart is in their mouth...	This is Susan Sizemore's fifth volome in what has become one of the more interesting vampire series.  Her basic premise is that vampire 'culture' is ruled by a council with a set of behavioral laws.  These are intended to control some of the innate violence in vampire kind, and to ensure the survival of a dwindling company of creatures who are both powerful and vulnerable.  The council's 'enforcers' are a specialized line of vampires called nighthawks.  These feed on vampires in the same fashion that vampires feed on use.  Possibly with even less constraint.<br />All of Sizemore's books focus on these enforcers, but this is the first volume that is actually a sequel to the previous volume.  Even so, most of the relationship is due to a common group of characters - Char McCairn and her lover Jebel Haven, Valentine and her childe Geoff Sterling, and verious others who have made appearances or honorable mention in previous volumes.  For the most part this volume can be read independently of its predecessors.<br />The story takes place in Las Vegas, which has a large vampire population, including those who have become addicted to the neon light that is a permanent feature of Las Vegas life.  Char is drawn by curiosity over a vampire owned hotel (Silk Road) that she has invested in.  Valentine is drawn by many of the unique artifacts that are collected under a casino designed to imitate an ancient vampire city.  What neither knows is that a revolution is brewing in the city - one that seeks to steal control from the enforcers.  Throw in a dragon and a large group of vampires running amok and you have a fairly good picture of the plot.<br />While Sizemore isn't entirely original, she takes various components and builds an intriguing picture of what vampire society might actually be like.  Despite also being a wirter of rimance novels, she keeps the love interest and sex play at a steady simmer rather than a full boil, which allows characters to develop unexpectedly.  She has opened enought threads that it is difficult to predict what she will do from volume to volume.  The books are quick reads with a good mix of mystery, intrigue, and violence.  Dive in anywhere, I think you will find this series more than just acceptible.has opened enought threads that it is difficult to predict what she will do from volume to volume.  The books are quick reads with a good mix of mystery, intrigue, and violence.  Dive in anywhere, I think you will find this series more than just acceptible.	2003-12-08
873567:US	53082946	R2QCTW1WNVZ1DW	0744002850	870493413	Final Fantasy X-2, Official Strategy Guide	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Over Engineered	This is one of the most exhaustive guides I've seen.  No doubt the occasion for this is the sheer size of the game.  For the most part it does a good job of documenting the nooks and crannies of the game and providing a line of play that will maximize the completeness score (which affects the precise version of the ending you will see and very little else).  It is heavily illustrated - mostly with pictures of Yuna, Rikku, and Payne - and comes as close to making sense of the complicated dress sphere based magic system as anything I've seen.<br />For all this, and there is even more, I feel the guide is flawed.  There are a small number of glaring mistakes that might be due to a difference between the Japanese and US versions of the game, or might just be mistakes.  And there are one or two glaring omissions.  The largest omission being the scant attention given to the 100 level dungeon that becomes available late in the game.<br />I understand the woes and pressures of publication, and honestly wouldn't have let these issues bother me.  There is a deeper problem with the guide that I think is its major flaw.  I use strategy guides in a 'use as I go' pattern.  If something puzzles me or seems over my head, I look it up.  What I would never do is study the entire guide, take notes, and develop a preplanned attack.  I prefer to interact spontaneously whenever possible.<br />This guide is more of a textbook than a strategy guide.  If you use it as I would, there is real danger that you will miss a subtlety or an order of play, only to find out about it 50 pages later.  Of course, the other side of the coin is that, without the guide, you would have made even worse mistakes.  So while I'm willing to deduct a star for ease of use, it still it the best assistant available for what is an incredible game.	2003-12-07
877453:US	53082946	RLBEI3GDJ89MZ	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Knights and Shadows	I get jealous of a main character who is both an academic expert on religious symbology at Harvard, and a perfect physical specimen who plays water polo for light exercise.  I get even more jealous when this superman (AKA Robert Langdon)  gets whisked to CERN headquarters in Europe to investigate a peculiar murder that seems to involve the Illuminati.  And you can imagine my further feelings when Langdon teams up with the beautiful and brilliant daughter of the victim (Vittoria Vetra) in a last ditch attempt to save the Vatican from annihilation by a titantic anti-matter explosion.<br />What Langdon discovers at CERN is that the Illuminati appear to have stolen a new technology, with which they intend to attack the Catholic Church, bringing an abrupt finish to a struggle that started hundreds of years earlier with Galileo.  With all of the cardinals lock in enclave to elect a new pope an anti-matter bomb has been hidden in the vast Vatican city and a madman busies himself leaving grisly trophies on the path to Illuminati headquarters.<br />Dan Brown does more than write a pure action novel.  With a deft combination of fact and imagination, he recreates CERN headquarters, Illuminati history, and the mysteries of the Vatican, telling the story within the space of one short day in the history of the world.  Admittedly, the story bogs down in places, character development is a trifle minimalistic, and the ending is over-baked.  But the resulting effect is fine entertainment.  Suspense buffs will get a kick out of all the machinations and plot twists.<br />I've never read The Da Vinci Code, Brown's previous Robert Langdon novel, but I'm tempted to now.  Even though I feel there were some plot inconsistencies and a couple of occasions where Brown stretched the underlying facts a bit too far, the fact remains that this was an interesting book.  The ideas he plays with, such as a possible spiritual implications of subatomic particles and anti-matter are ingeniously blended with what is primarily a paranoid plot story, resulting in some incidental food for thought.  Spice for what is otherwise an entertaining story of detection, deduction and intrigue.  I also appreciated the visits to some of the more obscure parts and rituals of the Vatican.  So if you need your weekly dose of paranoia - this is a good place to start.with what is primarily a paranoid plot story, resulting in some incidental food for thought.  Spice for what is otherwise an entertaining story of detection, deduction and intrigue.  I also appreciated the visits to some of the more obscure parts and rituals of the Vatican.  So if you need your weekly dose of paranoia - this is a good place to start.	2003-12-04
880585:US	53082946	R174H7MR8IOA40	B0000DH8GG	113769338	Psm: 100% Independent Playstation Magazine	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Reference	This is one of several trade journals that I use to keep up with the Playstation 2 world.  I find it a good, stable reference that does the best job of covering hardware and lesser games, and a typical job with the big releases.  Despite very heavy dependency on advertising, they manage to be fairly even handed in their rating philosophy.<br />Their writing is good, but the graphic design work makes the pages a bit hard to read - they carry the Gen X hyper active page layout to an extreme.  If you read like I do, there is a tremendous temptation to simply scan the text, look at the pictures, and then check the ratings.  Even though the writing usually has good information in it.<br />I think it's best in this field to read more than one monthly.  Using PSM and some of the others I've looked means fewer dollars wasted.  And games aren't cheap!!	2003-12-02
885894:US	53082946	RU9JBTQDXJC5R	B00007J7WL	502304949	Pse2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Playstation Extreme Magazine	This lesser known light is actually one of the better trade journals covering the Playstation market.  It is large format, but thin - probably about half advertisements, which is normal.  For the most part, the remaining material focuses mostly on writing, without a lot spent on graphical excesses.  My only gripe is that it is a bit too thin.<br />What makes PSE2 a bit special is that the writing is fairly level-headed (no hysterical hypes here) and focuses on game play.  Most other journals tend to wax a bit excessive on games yet to come (or that might be yet to come) but rarely get down and dirty.  Of course, this means that PSE2 isn't exciting reading,  but if you are a console-head who wants to know exactly what to expect, this may be just the magazine to watch for.<br />There is no apparent commercial bias.  The tend to publish reviews of games they really like rather than dwelling on the failures.  And they have a good sense of the PS2's place in gaming history.  Since it isn't particularly expensive, I suggest picking up an issue or two to check out.  You may find PSE2 just the thing for picking your next game.	2003-11-27
886984:US	53082946	R1TSOK39EOL315	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Growing Pains	With Harry, Hermione, and Ron at the dangerous age of 15, a whole new era in this series is ushered in.  The signs of a fledgling maturity begin to bloom in the three (well, two of the three - I'm not sure there is hope for Ron).  In addition to the host of difficulties that come with being Lord Voldemort's favorite target, Harry must deal with insecurity, love, and the frustrations of understanding a good bit more than adults want to give him credit for.<br />The argument over whether Voldemort is alive or not rages all around Harry, the school is in an uproar over the appointment of Dolores Umbridge as Grand Inquisitor, and even Dumbledore is under attack.  And with all that going on Harry must deal with his feelings toward Sirius, his new godfather, and a great wave of qualifying examinations that will have much to say about his future.  If he has one, that is - He Who Shall Not Be Named has other plans for Harry entirely.<br />As you can see, there is a lot going on in this year at Hogwarts.  Which may explain, at least in part why this volume is a mere 870 pages long.  New relationships and minor cast appear in quantity, and each needs some time and attention.  The themes for the remainder of the series are introduced, and several others are brought to a close.  All of this takes time, and, don't forget, there is a story to tell as well.  Rowling deserves considerable credit for managing all this and still keeping much of the reader's interest.<br />I have to remind myself, on occasion, that this book was not written with me in mind as the target audience.  Most of my issues with the book fall into the category of 'why this isn't great literature.'  Of course, it's not supposed to be.  It's a good story, well told, that seems to have gotten a bit away from the author.  No doubt because the end is in sight, and Rowling has suddenly realized how much she still has to accomplish.  I expect things will settle down a bit in the next volume.<br />I think the tiny details that could have been edited out are really the very things that keep this from being a shallow fairy tale.  Rowling has been very careful to built Harry's character as a real human who happens to have been born in the middle of a prophecy.  The characters aren't heroes, but young adults struggling to make sense in an ever more complicated world.  As such, I think there is both didactic and entertainment value here, which is a very difficult balance to maintain.  Hats off to an author who has proved she can do exactly that.ails that could have been edited out are really the very things that keep this from being a shallow fairy tale.  Rowling has been very careful to built Harry's character as a real human who happens to have been born in the middle of a prophecy.  The characters aren't heroes, but young adults struggling to make sense in an ever more complicated world.  As such, I think there is both didactic and entertainment value here, which is a very difficult balance to maintain.  Hats off to an author who has proved she can do exactly that.	2003-11-26
890069:US	53082946	R2FMNKC6DTIDYN	0449224147	827752918	Nightmare in Pink (Travis McGee, No. 2)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Chemical Warfare	This is the official 'second' in John D. MacDonald's series about Travis McGee, the slightly tarnished knight from Lauderdale, whose chosen steed is a 52 foot houseboat.  Second also in setting the general pattern of McGee books - a friend convinces McGee to take the case of another friend, usually a beautiful woman, and McGee grudgingly comes to the rescue - sometimes out of a sense of honor, and sometimes just for the money.<br />This time the 'asker' is Mike Gibson, a war buddy of McGee's who now lives as a permanent resident of the veteran's hospital.  The 'fixee' is Nina, Mike's sister - distraught when her boyfriend (Howard Plummer) dies in a mugging.  Nina finds a large bundle of money in a closet and becomes convinced that Howard was up to no good.  Now Mike wants to help her out of her depression, even if she is unwilling.  McGee, as usual, to the rescue.<br />As you might expect, Plummer's death was not what it seemed, and McGee finds himself enmeshed in a spectacular fraud that is bilking a company of millions while sending its victims to a mental ward.  Which is where McGee winds up as well, in a nightmarish twist that plays like 'On Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.'  Dropped into a hole from which there is no way to escape, McGee must fight for survival against a medical staff determined to steal his mind from him.<br />Perhaps the beauty of this story, other than MacDonald's powerful writing, is that it turns the 'tough-guy detective' genre on it's ear for a bit as McGee struggles with induced insanity, falls in love, and barely survives by the skin of his teeth.  This is a tough-guy with plenty of weaknesses and soft spots.  McGee, who serves as narrator, doesn't try to explain away his moments, good and bad, but reports them with a straightforward touch that makes him and easy favorite.<br />While this may not be the best of the series, for some reason it rings true and is one of my favorites.  It predicts many of the themes and tricks that will go on to be imitated time and again.  But never with quite the &eacute;lan than MacDonlad has.be imitated time and again.  But never with quite the lan than MacDonlad has.	2003-11-24
893437:US	53082946	R1R938H94MU611	0449223833	212509793	The Deep Blue Good-by	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Thief Within the Theft	According to rumor, when John MacDonald first debuted Travis McGee in 1964, he submited five novels at once.  Ritual considers The Deep Blue Good-by as the true first novel, although there is little evidence that would favor any of them.  All can be read independently, and all are excellent reading.<br />McGee makes his living by retrieving things that are hopelessly lost and tasking a hefty percentage off the top.  This funds his idyllic existence on the Busted Flush, a housboat in Lauderdale.  As McGee puts it, he is tacking his retirement in chunks spread over his life rather than all at once.  When Chookie McCall, a friendly dancer tries to get McGee to listen to the probelms of one of the women in her dance troupe McGee's first reaction is to say no.  But his sense of chivalry betrays him, and he finds himself drawn into the story of Catherine Kerr, who suspects that her estranged husband ran away with a nest egg that her father left for his family before he went to prison and to his death.<br />Soon McGee, the Busted Flush, and a Rolls Royce pickup truck named Miss Agnes are out hunting for Junior Allen and the mysterious treasure he is suspected of taking.  What McGee discovers soon enough is that Allen isn't just a crook, he is a true socipath.  The story begins to take ugly turns and we quickly find out that even white knights can get very dirty.  MacDonald's mystery storys are more often roller-coaster rides than quiet journeys, and The Deep Blue Good-by is no exception.  McGee is noble defender, tough guy, and patient listener as the circumstances require.  What he never is, is boring.<br />What sets MacDonald's novels apart from his many imitators is his tight control of language and pacing.  Without warning McGee's narration can shift from the mystery at hand to scathing social commentary.  Descriptions are vivid without the use of excess adjectives.  While MacDonald isn't really a noir writer, there is a dark shadow in all his stories.  One that can leave you shaken long after you turn the last page.ave you shaken long after you turn the last page.	2003-11-20
906386:US	53082946	R347NFK3UVB5AZ	0449224384	99498969	A Purple Place for Dying (Travis McGee, No. 3)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Color of Truth	When a friend recommends Travis McGee as the perfect man to solve a problem, Travis McGee finds himself employed by Mono Yeoman - a woman who is as tough, and as hard, as nails.  McGee leaves his Florida houseboat for the Nevada desert, where he expects to to help Mono untangle her estate from the greedy fingers of her estranged husband.  But he barly gets his bags unpacked when a sniper does away with his employer.<br />Any fan knows that nothing is more calculated to upset McGee than murdering someone right under his nose.  The detective/troubleshooter has very little patience under the best of circumstances and he takes that kind of interference very personally.  So client or no, McGee dives in to find the killer.  And uncover a complex land and money scheme at the same time.  In short order it becomes obvious that nothing is ever as obvious as it first seems and McGee is on his way to a showdown that might bring an unexpectedly swift end to John MacDonald's series.<br />McGee is the classic not-quite-noir hero, mad of the same cloth as Nero Wolfe's Archie.  Tough, a dash sarcastic, but basically a defender of the underdog, his solutions to problems combines subtlety and violence in just the right mix.  By now generations of mystery lovers have come to see McGee as their man in Lauderdale.  A solution up to the toughest challenge.  This is one of the earliest McGee's (The Deep Blue Good-by was first) and remains one of the best after nearly 40 years .	2003-11-10
908404:US	53082946	RT4RPM328XP13	0634011790	494061109	The Will Ackerman Collection	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Conferring With The Moon	I respect Will Ackerman for two things (mostly).  At a time when music, especially new age music, was relatively unknown, he founded Windham Hill Records.  And Windham Hill went on to be the foremost independent record label in the U.S.  They did this with an emphasis on quality that few labels, independent or not, would ever equal.  When I look at my shelves now I see album after album of musicians Ackerman helped along the way.<br />And the other thing I respect him for is that he is a consummate guitarist.  As much of a perfectionist as a musician as he is as a producer.  His style uses the kind of interplay between texture and melody that makes everything sound effortless, hiding the technical wizardry away from the listener.  As a guitarist myself, he keeps me in a perpetual state of envy.<br />This collection is a set of 14 pieces, chosen for both their beauty and their playability.  They are a selection from 10 of his albums, performed over a 22 year period.  Be warned that all are in special tunings, some of the standard 'open' variety, and some set up just for the particular piece.  So you will need something more advanced than a tuning fork.<br />Both tablature and scale are provided.  Certainly tablature is more important when playing with new tunings and you will find the music easy to read, with space for plenty of scribbled notes.  There is a short biography (more of a tribute) of Ackerman, and he shares some short words about the individual pieces.  The rest is pure, enjoyable music for both the player and the listener.	2003-11-08
909285:US	53082946	R3N2L5JK0PTVT2	0825610508	88791616	MIDI For Musicians	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Well Written Introduction	There has been a lot of water over the dam since the introduction of MIDI as a protocol for recording and controlling electronic (and some not-so-electronic) instruments.  The average musician has gone from completely computer illiterate to technically adept at living in a specialized world where the gut strings are cables and the voices come from chips.  All of this has greatly empowered the players and composers who can work with these building blocks.<br />But truth is that, for many musicians MIDI is still a mystery.  Something that just 'happens' when they follow the instructions in a manual, and when something doesn't happen they are lost.  Despite being nearly 20 years old, MIDI for musicians is still one of the best guides for the nave who are looking to become cognoscenti.<br />Anderton has written a short, to-the-point book that delves into the mysteries of the architecture of electronic instruments and their control without racing ahead of the readers ability to cope.  He treats his reader as someone who is both motivated and intelligent, fearlessly broaching some complicated topics and dicing them up into digestible components.<br />He moves steadily from what is happening in the wires to presenting a strong overview of the potential resources available to the musician.  Recommended for both novices and journeymen alike.	2003-11-08
909886:US	53082946	RV9LSAM29GNSP	0744000416	116230003	Final Fantasy IX Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	1	51	53	N	N	Where's the Beef?	The strategy guide business is one of being partly an aid and partly a souvenir.  It's not often that a guide manages to fail on both counts.  Especially when the underlying game is one as complex and varied an RPG as Final Fantasy IX.  I'm not sure what was going on at Squaresoft's planning tables when they thought this out (other than a desire to save pages) but the guide is missing many of the key elements that should make a player willing to but it.<br />Rather than provide a detailed walkthru, the information is split between the book and an online web site.  All the real details, advice, and solutions require stopping the game, going online to find something out and then returning to the game.  Since my Playstation is in one room, and the computer is in another, I wound up using the guide for high level order of play information and figuring everything else for myself.  Since the game isn't particularly hard to follow through without a guide using it to amplify the playing experience is a futile exercise.<br />In addition, in several places the guide has an irritating habit of telling you to do one thing and then telling you several pages later to do something else.  I generally don't read guides through from cover to cover while taking notes.  Instead I use the guide when I run into an problem or to make sure I haven't missed a side quest.  One thing a guide should never do is cause a mistake that means I have to replay 10 hours work in order to correct a tiny omission.<br />The supplied charts are acceptible, but uninspired in the amount of detail provided.  And there are no maps worth mentioning.  Even the amount and quality of imagery and graphic design are mediocre.  Couple this with the fact that the website is generally accessible (all the manual does is provide special search keywords that really aren't needed) and I honestly can't encourage players to buy this guide.	2003-11-07
911328:US	53082946	R2JP3HK1TIOETI	074342767X	85492682	Chaos Bleeds (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Now That You've Played the...	In a wry reversal of literary tradition (remember the days when the book was written first and the film second) Chaos Bleeds is a book based on a console game that is based on a television series.  Given this wierd architecture I'm not sure what precise definition of 'successful' should be applied.  Is the novel a good extension of the show, a fair representation of the game, or, last but not least, is it a good novel on its own.<br />Set in the Spike-just-got-his-chip era, the book opens with a short attempt to set the scene, followed by a battle, and then followed by a battle, and then a short cut scene, and then another battle...  You get the picture - the primary purpose of Chaos Bleeds the novel is to provide a virtual reality version of Chaos Bleeds the game.  If a novel could ever be considered a 'virtual reality' experience.<br />So while there really is a story arc, there is nothing so complicated as a plot.  Is this a bad?  Not really, Moore does concentrate a bit on character development, so personalities come through in a way that the game simply cannot do.  And it is genuinely interesting to learn the motivations behind some of the madness of the game itself.  And Moore writes as well as could be expected, given the literary constraints.<br />As a general rule, story telling games like the Shadowrun series translate into novels best.  I think this is the first time an action game has attempted the transition, and it is almost a success from a pure readibility viewpoint.  Unfortunately, the hectic pace of the game is less engaging when replayed in text.  The book is hard to put down not because it is a fascinating story, but because the reader is provided with very few logical breaks in the action.  So I find the book likeable, but I'm not at all sure that I would want to repeat the experience.  Any more than I would look forward to the Playstation version of War and Peace.	2003-11-06
927559:US	53082946	R26YU9R4OXF96F	0743400399	544453847	Blood and Fog (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Mostly Just Foggy	Nancy Holder, a long time Buffy writer, pits Jack the Ripper against Buffy in a complete reinvention of the Whitechapel horror, conveniently uprooted to Sunnydale.  The timing is pre evil Willow post Xander engagement.  This should have been an interesting story, including as it does a host of mythical nasties, the Buffy and Spike relationship, and the entire scooby gang, old and new.  But is just doesn't come together the way it should.<br />The story proceeds in parallel grooves, one about Elizabeth, the Slayer doomed to meet up with Jack in Whitechapel, and the other about modern times, where Buffy has to discover how to close a portal for the umpteenth time.  The common personality is Spike who was lurking about with Drusilla when Jack made his debut performance.  Other than this link the stories have little in common, and Holder never quite succeeds in blending them together.<br />I have no clue why Holder siezed on the word Banshee, the word for woman fairy, to use as the name of the king of the Tuatha de Danann.  It is one of those little distractions that can mar the effect of a story, and Holder creates several in this one volume.  Redefining Jack the Ripper as a dark elf cross-breed doesn't rings false, since it creates the need for one distortion after another in both British history or legend.  This is a shame, since there is nothing wrong with the basic plot idea of having Buffy meet a historical monster.  Nor should there be anything wrong with a story that lands her in the midst of at ancient conflict between the Fay races.  but the two together just don't gel.<br />Holder tries to anticipate the events to come in the TV series, but only succeeds in drawing an excruciating picture of Willow's inner turmoil and anguish at her seperation from Tara.  While this isn't really Holder's fault, Willows degeneration into a weepy, miserable personality is totally out of character from her start as a competent, intelligent woman.  I would like someone to write a story that doesn't make her out to be a complete sap during this period, but my Watcher sense tells me that it will be a long wait.story that doesn't make her out to be a complete sap during this period, but my Watcher sense tells me that it will be a long wait.	2003-10-24
936864:US	53082946	R2LVYL055QFUVX	0744003008	281758983	.hack(tm) Part 3: Outbreak Official Strategy Guide (Official Strategy Guides (Bradygames)) (Pt. 3)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Grump!!!	Generally, there's nothing to get particularly irritated about in a game guide, even this one.  They fill out the story, provide maps and walkthroughs, catalogs of items, and explain the complicated bits if there are any.  Many, like this guide come out pre-production of the US version of the game.  Which means that small errors and differences are inevitable.<br />So what irritated me about this particular 'Strategy Guide'.  Actually, it was several things, but the most glaring omission is any attempt at a weapons list.  That doesn't sound like much, but this game has weapons galore, and they are often vital to solving a particular confrontation.  When a guide tells you to select a weapon with good fire spells, and you have to paw through an entire collection of twin blades, it can get on your nerves.<br />This isn't what I would call a necessary guide - .hack//OUTBREAK is not a difficult game from the viewpoint of plot or monster slayage.  If you play the game straight, you may miss some of the cooler weapons and armors and never get to beat the goblins, but you will win the game without anything unfathomable happening.  In these circumstances a guide should amplify the experience, be something of a souvenir, and NOT forget to tell you some important things.<br />This guide falls a bit short.  Not fatally, but just enough to be an irritant.  Think twice before imbibing.	2003-10-17
944721:US	53082946	R3L0ERG45VPRNB	0966640446	900680372	Insanely Twisted Rabbits	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Ears that Bite	Anyone who loves Monty Python, or who is a fan of Anya understands that rabbits are really voracious, man-eating creatures that hunt the night (or Knight) looking for the unsuspecting.  And yet we continue to expose out children to them, believing that appearances could never be that deceiving.  Finally, Michel Gagne has decides to take the lid of this secret scandal and reveal to the world the real horror that lurks between those sad brown eyes and cutesy tails.<br />Gagne was an illustrator in the well-known Don Bluth Studios until they closed in 1992.  during that period he and another artist, Dave Kupczyk had a one-on-one competition about who could draw the evilest rabbit.  While we won't know the real winner until Kupczyk publishes his own book, Gagne's rabbits are a delightfully evil and twisted as they come.  The stuff of fluffy nightmares.<br />This is one of those books that is reserved for gag gifts for rabbit enthusiasts and excesses of cute, but it is fun for anyone that discovers it.  Even as we speak, my cats are checking it out and whispering tales about that famous serial killer, Jack the Rabbit.  You can't help but like this thin volume.  Recommended for the light of heart.	2003-10-10
948043:US	53082946	RMOBZ5TEWHXXL	0066214769	637368678	Children of the Storm	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Plus Ca Change...	With fifteen volumes under her umbrella,  Elizabeth Peters has an uncontestible hold on the 'turn of the century Egyptologists turned detectives' genre - if there ever really was any competition.  Amelia, husband Emerson, children Ramses and Nefret, countless almost children, and now grandchildren have made a long career of running riot through devious crimes commited against the backdrop of ancient tombs and temples.  The Emersons may be genteel folk in origin, but in practice they prove as rough and tumble as the villains they fall upon.<br /><br />This time a series of seemingly unrelated events - a visitation by the Goddess Hathor, the theft of some jewelry from a rich find, and some near misses by local hunters - gradually builds up into a tight net woven to accomplish both grand larceny and revenge.  Soon the entire cast of this series are assembled, often, it seems, in one room.  Including both of Emerson's brother - quiet-spoken Walter, and the mysterious ex-criminal Sethos.  Their opponents are an equally numerous and surprising group, and the resulting chaos is all the more entertaining.<br /><br />There was a period in this series where the characters became stereotypes of themselves and the story lines a bit formulaic.  The Emerson's are always irritating, it is their nature.  But for a while, Peters forgot to make them funny enough to compensate.  In the very latest volumes, this trend seems to have abated.  'Children of the Storm' moves well, and the characters have become more vivid, even as they have learned to step out of character when it is necessary.  In other words, the charm has returns to this series.  In fact, I found myself reading it with a certain amount of relish that I have dearly missed.<br /><br />Peters, as a practicing Egyptologist herself, manages to mix fact with fiction in a concoction that would appeal to anyone who loves tombs and mummies.  Whether there ever were archeaologists as unnerving as the Emersons is moot, but one wishes there were.  If you have stayed away from some of the latest volumes, it's time to consider returning.have stayed away from some of the latest volumes, it's time to consider returning.	2003-10-08
951472:US	53082946	R3AEFJKLGXJOCM	156686903X	999017626	Final Fantasy VIII Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Top Gaming Value	Most players suspect that using game guides is cheating.  And in some cases, that is undeniably true.  But in an RPG as large as Final Fantasy VIII the effect is exactly the opposite.  Instead, the guide functions more like a travel guides, making sure you know all the cool places to visit, and providing maps.  The remove some of the irritations, help in planning, and improve the overall experience.<br />It is quite possible to get through FF8 in less that 50 hours with goot strategy and a bit of luck.  Some people no doubt do, and think they've really experienced the game.  Others get bogged down by a complicated puzzle sequence and miss an important feature and become frustrated when they can't complete the game.  This guide is designed to alleviate just these problems, and enhance the entire gaming experience.<br />If you actually tried to do everything the guide covers playing time could go over 120 hours, making FF8 three times the game you thought it was.  The guide also makes an effort to clear up some of the poor (or non-existent) explanations of useful game features.  And yes, there are clues and explanations for those of us who aren't capable of reading the minds of our consoles,<br />So I would recommend the guide to any new owner of FF8.  Whether you follow it religiously or just keep it handy as a reference I think you will feel it's well worth the price.  It has all the charts and item lists, full details about characters and character building, and all the other paraphernalia that will enhance any enthusiast's experience.	2003-10-05
955570:US	53082946	RMXXTHXEW5KXR	0879305959	172375947	The Art of Inlay: Design and Technique for Fine Woodworking	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A Master Craftsman	I should start out this review by confessing that I'm biased.  I own a custom guitar on which Larry Robertson did the inlay work.  Since I'm one of those people who gets very involved in the design of anything that interests me, Larry and I had quite a few talks about what I wanted and how things would be done.  This was an educational experience that was worth the price of entry itself, and the result never fails to amaze me.<br />What convinced me to approach Robinson about the work was the content of this small, but impressive volume.  It is one thing to know that a craftsman is a master by reputation, and another to see the evidence in print before you.  In my opinion Larry is the U.S.'s premier master of inlay, only surpassed on this continent by Grit Laskin, a Canadian Luthier who does it all, and very well.<br />The technical portion of this book is excellent.  Robinson's written style is so straightforward that my first reaction was that he was leaving something out.  But he really doesn't.  Between the text and the illustrations, there is enough information and inspiration to last through more than a rack full of guitars.  Whether you are a luthier trying to make something special, or a connoisseur of the guitar and its relatives, this book belongs on your shelfs.	2003-10-01
959438:US	53082946	RD5NX6ODJX7V9	0811806405	808368966	Guitarmaking: Tradition and Technology: A Complete Reference for the Design & Construction of the Steel-String Folk Guitar & the Classical Guitar (Guitar Reference)	Books	4	44	45	N	N	Direct and Informative	All woodworkers are perfectionists, but those who make musical instruments live in a special place in hell.  For them, each step, no matter how small can have a huge, and unexpected effect on the final result.  Even if they follow the same plans and use the same materials, two guitarmakers can have significantly different results.<br />Developing the techniques that will give the craftsman both consistency and control over the final result can often take a lifetime of experimentation.  This excellent book, by Cumpiano and Natelson, helps to bridge the gap between novice and journeyman.  It will enable most aspiring luthiers to produce something special.<br />The writers focus on the practicalities of guitarmaking - the tools and techniques used.  The arrangement is functional and step-wise, the explanations clear, with a sufficiency of illustrations and photographs.  Little attention is paid to the more exotic equipment that appears in professional workshops.  This is a book for the hand-craftsman, not someone intent on starting a business.<br />I confess that I did not by the book with the intent of making a guitar.  Instead, I was on the verge of having one made for me, and I wanted to understand the process enough to talk intelligently with the makers (in my case, the luthier, the tuning machine maker, and the inlayer).  As such, this book bridged an important gap.<br />What is missing from the book is any detailed discussion about material choice and the effect of certain design decisions (materials, bracing, etc.).  Since these are the things that can make the difference between an OK instrument and a work of the luthier's art, I would have liked to see much more information.  For that, unfortunately, one must seek elsewhere.  But for everything else, this volume will do.	2003-09-29
961053:US	53082946	RZ5AQLALI1P8Z	0521223539	630370617	The Cambridge History of Japan, Vol. 2: Heian Japan	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	An Extensive Reference	This is the second volume in The Cambridge History of Japan, covering from the founding of Heian-kyo in 794 to the Gimpei clan wars of 1185 and the rising dominance of the warrior class.  Arguably, these are the formative years for Japanese culture and social structure.  Many of the subtle forms of governance that endured into modern times were entrenched at this time.  Art and religion flourished as well (this was the period in which The Tale of Genji was written).<br />The Heian era, marked by a tremendous amount of formative activity, are crucial to understanding all that followed.  This text is as exhaustive a record and analysis of those times as any reader would ever want.  The chapters are written by individual experts in their fields and cover key aspects of history, politics, sociology, religion, and art.  If anything, the worst criticism of this text is that the amount of information provided is overwhelming.<br />Casual history buffs beware.  Don't expect an easy to read narrative.  The intended reader is either academic or deeply interested.  The kind of person who doesn't mind information overload and who is willing to take the time to put all the pieces of the picture into place.  It may be important to understand rice politics, but, for the average reader, the subject lacks the glitter of the Heian court and the conflicts that forged modern Japan.<br />Of course, this is intended to be a reference book as much as a history, which accounts for the dryness of some of the writing.  But as a reference book it really shines - I have yet to look for something and not be able to find material.  For the right reader, the book is well worth its steep price.	2003-09-27
968887:US	53082946	R2VUW7D46F24RE	1929685858	930416747	Cubase SX Power!	Books	5	21	21	N	N	When Less is More	Cubase SX and SL are exceptional packages that actually come with good manuals.  Unfortunately, the reference manual is 700 pages long and only provided on disk (to be fair, it is also available for purchase separately).  Some people adapt well to electronic books, but I don't - I like to riffle through the pages looking for useful tidbits and inspiration.  For folks like me, Robert Guerin has written the perfect book.<br />Cubase SX Power is written very much from the practitioner's point of view.  It offers a tour of the software, accompanied with little exercises, that covers the things most likely to be of importance to someone trying to create and record a piece of music.  As such, it is a bit more focused that the manuals are.  It tries to give you the basics you need, and doesn't dwell at length on some of the more intricate details that are more confusing than helpful at first..<br />What it does very well is get you over the initial learning curve that Steinberg's software presents to the novice.  The writing style is clear, without any frills.  This isn't a 'for dummies' kind of book though - Guerin assumes that the reader already knows some of the basics of recording and is intelligent enough to have a computer in the first place.  The book has stood the test of time for me and is often the first place I look when I have a question - which is the best recommendation I can give any reference book.	2003-09-20
971371:US	53082946	R3R2U897NAPYII	1591824141	881160131	.Hack: //Legend of the Twilight, Vol. 1	Books	4	29	30	N	N	The Missing Piece	Few .hack fans in the US are aware that the missing piece of the .hack universe is a manga series that has been available in Japan, but until now has not been translated into English.  I've impatiently awaited their appearance and snapped this up as soon as I saw it was available.<br />The series is set after the events in the game.  Shugo and Rena, a pair of 14-year-old novices to The World win limited edition avatars - the 'dot hacker' set that Blackrose and Kite made famous.  No sooner do they start adventuring than it becomes clear that these are more than costumes.  Then a visit from Aura provides Shugo with Kite's bracelet, and they quickly draw the attention of other familiar players.  These include Balmung, Helga, and even Orca.  All wondering if history is trying to repeat itself.<br />Gradually, the pair make new friends and start playing in the virtual world.  This first volume serves more to build the settings than to detail any hair-raising adventures.  Most of their experiences seem to arise out of the interference of Balmung, who is now a system administrator.  They are being tested to find out if they are more than simple players - a strange fate seems to dog their steps.  But for now, the mood is mostly silly.<br />To be honest, I found the manga a bit disappointing.  Both the TV series and the OVA set are fairly intelligent stories - as much about the players and both their lives as they are about gaming in a virtual fantasy.  The game itself is fairly straightforward, suitable for a wide range of ages.  The manga, however, seem tuned to the younger end of the spectrum.  The characters are depicted more as children than young adults.  Their behavior is in much the same vain.<br />It is probably unfair to expect all the parts of .hack to be written for the same audience, but the manga are shallower than I would have ever expected.  Of course, the prevailing mood can change at any time, but so far the most dramatic moments seem to arise out of Shugu's defenses of Rena's virtual honor.  And his outrage when she isn't all that thrilled with his efforts.<br />Still, if you are a .hack junky you are going to want to have this.  And it is neither expensive or offensive.  Just another piece of .trivia .s defenses of Rena's virtual honor.  And his outrage when she isn't all that thrilled with his efforts.<br />Still, if you are a .hack junky you are going to want to have this.  And it is neither expensive or offensive.  Just another piece of .trivia .	2003-09-18
974139:US	53082946	RC6DYQZT5T2X1	0743462939	167156556	A Terrible Beauty	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	A Hundred Years in the Making	When Detective Superintendent Katie Maquire is called to investigate the discovery of a common grave in rural Cork, she little expects that mythology and madness are about to take a walk through the fabric of her life.  Eleven skeletons, the flesh carefully removed from their bones nearly a century before,  with raggedy dolls tied to each thighbone.  An incomplete sacrifice, Katie finds out, to call up an evil witch.  A ritual that once terrorized women in Europe and the US as the murderer traveled.<br />But after a long rest a killer stalks again intent on completing the ritual.  Cutting the flesh from his victims slowly, carefully keeping them alive until the last moment.  For Katie Maquire, who must deal with these horrific crimes and her own husband's descent into the world of crime, this becomes a nightmarish dream.  Police procedural, psychological thriller, and not a small dram of the bleak mythology of Ireland's darkest past are the key components.<br />Against the foreboding backdrop, Masterton plays the practicalities of a police investigation and Katie's unraveling marriage with no small skill.  His sin is in overdoing his effects.  We spent too much time lingering over the torture of the victims without gaining much in the way of insight into the workings of what should be a very peculiar mind.  While Maquire's character stands out, most of the rest of the cast could just as well be cardboard figures.<br />Even so, this is very nearly a complete success as a mystery and a suspense story.  I was surprised at the end, though, when Masterton suddenly tries to turn it into a horror story in order to justify the final action.  Not only was this unnecessary, but it rings a false note in an otherwise sensible and engaging story.  Despite its flaws, I enjoyed reading the novel, both for its story and the tidbits of Celtic mythology. It is likeable if not particularly laudable.	2003-09-16
978123:US	53082946	R3L0M97G0ITY3	0446606790	183868419	The High House	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An Anti-Allegory	I started reading this with some misgivings.  My tastes in fantasy tend to run to extended heroic quests full of violent confrontations in a wild quest for something incredibly magical.  All in the cause of defeating horrible evils.  I don't mind if they have some higher meaning, I just don't want to know about it.<br />Since The high House is about a prodigal son returning to his father's house, where countless doors open onto little communities straight out of Gulliver's travels I was sure I was doomed.  What saves the day is that, while the book is unabashedly allegorical, it refuses to take itself too seriously.  So at the end of what turns out to be a charming story you know you've been given a very important lessen, but you're not quite sure what it was.<br />The prodigal of the story is Carter Anderson, returned home after a long exile to find that his father has disappeared on a quest for the magical keys that Carter has lost as a child.  Evil, in the person of a faceless British Bobby and his hoard of anarchists, have the keys, and it beginning to work its way to bringing down the magic of the house and the power of its residents.<br />First accompanied by his father's old friends, and then by a half brother - Duskin - whose mother would dearly like to see Carter dead, they seek news of Carter's father, the regalia due the house's master, and finally the keys themselves.  So, after all is said and done, the book turned out to be exactly the kind of story I like, just cast very differently.  There may be no elves in Evenmere, but there are magics and terrors great and small.<br />As I've mentioned, the story has an element of charm that the hardcore fantasy fan my find off-putting.  But in a world where too often fantasy dwells on the grim and tragic, I found the story refreshing.  The sequel to The High House (called The False House) is, unfortunately, out of print.  I am going to have to track it down.  If it is as good as James Stoddard's first it will be a welcome addition to my library.l be a welcome addition to my library.	2003-09-12
993205:US	53082946	R2O0RL4E6DU03Y	0425188817	69021739	Sleeper	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	The Jaws that Bite	You first thought while reading 'Sleeper,' will be something like &quot;Oh no!  Yet another humanoid reptilian monster creeping around in the basements of a huge building and eating people as a pastime.&quot;  And, to be honest, you wouldn't be wrong.  It seems that scaly creatures with dubious DNA have superceded great white sharks as the inhuman villain of preference.  The nastier and smarter the better.<br />A sealed tank is accidentally discovered in the deepest foundations of the Pentagon, bearing the stamp of the German Abwehr.  A workman unknowingly opens it, and becomes the first in a string of 'lunches' as a terrible breeding experiment of World War II stalks though the Pentagon, seeking to carry out the sabotage for which it was originally created.  Toss in a beautiful research scientist, an attractive building superintendent, a stuffy general, and a rebellious Navy Seal, and you pretty much have the entire story.<br />The good news is that Steven Harriman is several notches better than the average hack horror writer.  As a result, what could have been a predictable potboiler turns into something that can hold a readers interest.  All of the characters have some flaw that reflects the monster they are hunting.  In fact, the creature shares many of their human characteristics as well as the tragedy of being denied the access to normalcy by its creators, who could see it only as a tool.<br />While this is by no means a great work of literature, it has its own satisfactions, full of the little twists of insight that make this story more than a hack and slash rerun.  If you like this kind of creepy horror (as I do) then you will likely find 'Sleeper' a few hours of pleasant entertainment.	2003-08-31
993860:US	53082946	RYC4L5RSQH8WX	0689856652	325602474	Monster Island	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	For Whom the Slayer Toils	A music teacher of mine once observed that the greatest examples of each musical era come after the end of that era.  While that is arguable, there is no question that 'Monster Island' is an outstanding example of Buffy literature coming out too late for it to be anything but a poignant reminder of our favorite vampire slayer.<br />It is set in the time period after Buffy's final return from the dead, and before the onset of Willow's own difficulties.  Not the best of times, but one of relative peace before things finally come completely apart.  Also of interest is that Chris Golden and Tom Sniegoski have chosen to bring Buffy and Angel together in an unusual struggle.  One in which the folk they are fighting to save are demons.<br />It shouldn't be any surprise that demons are liable to the same social dysfunctions that humans fall victim to.  In this case, the onset of a racial purity movement threatens the existence of demons of mixed (part human) heritage - as well as those who support them.<br />In Sunnydale, a string of grim murders draws the Scooby gang into the nets of General Axtius, a Brachen demon who (oddly enough) was Doyle's father before he took up the flag of 'demonic cleansing.'  Then Axtius shifts his focus to Los Angeles, where he is distracted from his cause by his efforts to wreak revenge on Angel, whom he blames for Doyle's death.<br />Realizing that the problem is bigger than either her or Angel, Buffy comes to Los Angeles, where the join forces.  Eventually traveling to a mysterious island where those demons who have come to value peace have set up a safe retreat.  There they must make a last stand against the hordes of General Axtius.<br />Golden and Sniegoski have proven themselves a powerful writing team of several occasions, but 'Monster Island' may be their finest hour.  Not only is there a strong plot, but the character interaction - especially as the Sunnydale and Los Angeles contingents adjust to each other - is remarkable.  The story underlines the changes all of the character have gone through, and provides interesting insights into some of the less character.<br />Great plot, writing, characters, and the sweet bitterness of nostalgia for something that will never happen again.  If you are ever going to read a Buffy book put this on your must read list.ry underlines the changes all of the character have gone through, and provides interesting insights into some of the less character.<br />Great plot, writing, characters, and the sweet bitterness of nostalgia for something that will never happen again.  If you are ever going to read a Buffy book put this on your must read list.	2003-08-30
1001020:US	53082946	R37WBXBNJELJC6	0743222008	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Deaver, Jeffery)	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	Now you see him...	Jeffrey Deaver has shown a tendency to overwork the same plot mechanisms in his previous volumes, causing me to have a few second thoughts about buying and reading this volume.  Nor am I a big fan of the kind of suspense story where we are introduced to the villain of the piece immediately and the only mystery is which way the plot will twist next.<br />So I was surprised when 'The Vanished Man' caught my interest from the onset and kept it to the end.  Part of the spell comes from the subject matter - stage magic and it's mysteries.  Deaver shows an unexpected mastery of the subject - the tricks, the psychology, and the personalities.  He introduces a you magician in training, Kara, to the investigative team, and she holds her own against the strong personalities of Amelia Sachs and the paralyzed Lincoln Rhyme.<br />When most murderers leave glaring clues they are asking to be caught.  But as Rhyme and Sachs investigate a string of gruesome crimes it becomes obvious that a skilled stage artist is dragging them through a trail of misdirection - cold-bloodedly setting a grandiose trap.  It is up to the team to try to pinpoint the real object of the crimes before the last grim strike.  Not without a lot of help from Kara as well.<br />Most of the story is Amelia's, Rhyme's active counter part.  She has developed quite a bit from being the foil of a brilliant quadriplegic investigator.  Her character has a fluidity that makes her a vibrant character with issues of her own - independent of the challenges facing Rhyme himself.  If anything, it is Rhyme who has flattened out a bit, becoming something of a caricature of himself.<br />The story's only fault is that their opponent is a little too good and a little too lucky.  Be that as it may, it is excellent reading.  Between the magical overtones and a plot that never goes in the same direction for more than a chapter or two, there is enough depth to keep a readers attention.  The story stands well by itself, as all of the volumes of this series do.  If you haven't looked into them, and like intricate procedurals, it is time to start.e volumes of this series do.  If you haven't looked into them, and like intricate procedurals, it is time to start.	2003-08-24
1005664:US	53082946	R1WPE6IBRSAOGE	0761540474	725835826	BloodRayne (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Better than the game...	Both the thinness of this guide, and the large amount of illustration bear evidence to the face that BloodRayne is not a particularly complex game.  It is, after all, a straightforward hack-and-slash with just enough difficulty to challenge players.  So keep in mind that this strategy guide is more useful as a souvenir than a serious aid.<br />It does provide what help is needed, with an abundance of pictures and maps.  It also lists all the commonly known cheats.  But its real value is in providing some interesting narrative and character background.  The kind of a material that adds life to the playing experience.  Prima's guide does exactly that.	2003-08-20
1026118:US	53082946	R2X339NF221FZY	0380816210	762856232	Black River: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Buried in Concrete	One of the pleasures of reading Ford's books is the sheer strength of his writing.  This is true whether he is being deadly serious or wryly humorous, as he was in his previous series.  While he is a 'no frills' writer, he accomplishes his goal by having an unerring sense of the proper word or construct.<br />In this story, the sequel to Fury, we again meet up with Frank Corso, a journalist who lost his cachet when he wrote a story based on falsified evidence.  Since that time he has moved to Seattle where his determination has found him a new job and let him reestablish himself as a newsman and a writer.  He has been allowed to sit in on the trial of Nicholas Balagula, a ruthless crime boss who has never been brought to justice.  But when photojournalist Meg Dougherty, Corso's closest friend is suddenly attacked and very nearly killed a different kind of trial emerges, with Corso sitting in the judge's seat.<br />A tangled web of loose connections sends Corso down the dark side of the city, tracking down hired killers, builders, and janitors to find what Meg saw that put her in a hospital.  Corso isn't a genius, but a determined seeker who can eventually work his was through the toughest knot.  Although this time what he doesn't know very nearly kills him.<br />As always, Ford's characters a gem-like.  While the bad guys are 'bad,' the good guys aren't angels, and individual idiosyncrasies bring them all to life.  The main characters do develop, but slowly.  It has taken Corso two novels to move from his initial bitterness to a dark cynicism.  For all that Meg is unconscious for most of the book, she has changed the most, which brings out the best and the worst of Corso's character.<br />Like a typical shallow fan, I wasn't all that comfortable when Ford switched from Leo Waterman.  I had gotten used to the humorous antics of the alcoholic bums who made up Waterman's investigatory team.  But Corso is a compelling character, and this new series may very well be closer to what Ford really wanted to accomplish.  In any case, I think you will find Black River great entertainment.oser to what Ford really wanted to accomplish.  In any case, I think you will find Black River great entertainment.	2003-08-02
1026243:US	53082946	R2J7SBBZG1RNEX	1931313539	622071447	A History of Egypt, Part 1: From the Earliest Time to the Persian Conquest (Pt. 1)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Much Beloved	Back when I first read Breasted's history it was already 60 years old.  I was 14  and much enamored of this ancient culture that I knew mostly from horror movies and eerie museum displays.  Cruising the library shelves I found this ponderous volume and dived into it.  Starting a lifelong habit of always picking the heaviest book.  Of course, the book was out of date then, and today it is more a document of the turn of the century mythology about ancient Egypt than it is anything that qualifies as 'history.'<br />And yet, in many ways it entirely changed the world of a fourteen year old child - whose horizons were suddenly broadened in a multitude of directions.  Breasted bridges the gap between tedious academic history and popular and simpleminded glosses.  He is always conscious that the facts he narrates are a telescopic look into a culture almost completely alien from what we are today.  His simple, direct style has brought the old world alive for the curious for almost a century now.<br />If his thinking seems a bit nave now, it is important to understand that there has been a wealth of discovery in the intervening years.  And this book was one of the inspirations that fueled that pursuit of knowledge, drawing people's attention to the mysterious past, and inspiring countless readers to look further.  Look elsewhere for accurate material, but come here to see ithe excitement in the archeologist's mind.	2003-08-02
1034720:US	53082946	R11LI66O83QRL0	0399149422	685215703	The Cat Who Brought Down the House	Books	4	21	23	N	Y	A Cozy Quarter Century	It has been a long time (possibly 24 years) since anyone has read a Lilian Braun mystery story for the mystery.  If for no other reason than that we often know who committed the crime before we ever know what the crime was.  Instead we read them to enjoy the antics of a stellar cast of characters in a mythical town set '400 miles north of everywhere.'<br />The ostensible star is Qwilleran, a recovering journalist, whose life in Pickaxe began when he inherited a fortune and found it impossible to leave.  His friends include almost everyone, and his deepest secret is that Koko, one of his two Siamese cats, is the true brains behind the outfit.<br />In this, the 25th in the series, Pickaxe is abuzz with the news of the return of Thelma Thackery, who left Moose County for Hollywood (where she eventually became a very successful restaurateur) 55 years ago.  Now she has moved into one of the towns few mansions with Janice, her assistant and a bevy of colorful and outspoken parrots. Her sole surviving relative in Moose County is her nephew, who is noted for his smile and the lack of any visible means of support.<br />And so the stage is set for intrigue, parrot-napping, blueberry pie recipes, and an endless flow of gossip and tales.  The success of Braun's books depends not on the intricacies of plot and character development, but on Qwiilleran's exuberant side trips into the nooks and crannies of Pickaxe history.<br />One of the dangers to any long running series is settling into formula writing and then forgetting the point behind the formula.  For a while, Braun's books lost their focus, and Qwilleran allowed to become increasingly irritating as a main character.  This has always been a series where a year between episodes was needed to maintain their charm, but recently a year has not been enough.<br />I'm happy to say that 'The Cat Who Brought Down the House' has broken this trend.  Not that it isn't formulaic, but it has returned to being a pleasant, entertaining romp.  Cozy mystery stories are, after all, literary comfort food.  Reading this story is almost like a return to the home that might have been if the world was a bit less dire.<br />There is nothing in this volume that would prevent anyone from starting with it.  For the most part historical relationships are explained, and there is nothing in the plot that depends on previous knowledge.  If you are looking for pure escapism, consider starting here.romp.  Cozy mystery stories are, after all, literary comfort food.  Reading this story is almost like a return to the home that might have been if the world was a bit less dire.<br />There is nothing in this volume that would prevent anyone from starting with it.  For the most part historical relationships are explained, and there is nothing in the plot that depends on previous knowledge.  If you are looking for pure escapism, consider starting here.	2003-07-26
1045123:US	53082946	R26EDZMNHL5GK	0671041169	993877595	The Hum Bug	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Well researched, but	Set in the 1840's this mystery story combines the talents of Edgar Allan Poe, newly moved to New York with his family, and P. T. Barnum, who has been implicated in a murder that imitated one of the exhibits in his American Museum.  As the pair investigates, others are revealed to have suspicious connections to the victim, from the very wealthy to the impoverished.<br />Be prepared for many twists in the plot before anything resembling a resolution appears on the horison.  Yet, competing with Barnum's own expansive character and the colorful personalities of his crew of 'freaks,' the plot often disappears into second place.  Often, readers will wonder if they are reading a detective story or a comedy of manners.  To be honest, I found this omething of a weakness.<br />The problem with recreating a literary force like Edgar Allan Poe is that, somehow, one must provide for the dark images of Poe that have been imposed on the general populace through high school, and well into college.  Especially when turning the poet and writer into a detective and logician.  If not done exactly right, the character will fail to ring true, and the story will read more like a parody than a product of its subject.<br />In this case, I'm not sure that Schechter didn't set out to write a wry imitation of Poe.  Even the title of this work is something of a pun.  P.T. Barnum, Poe's cohort in the effort to solve a gruesome crime that is in itself a parody, is depicted as original master of humbug.  But Poe is equally guilty, using his place to puff himself up a bit and portray himself as perfect husband, brilliant artist, and finder of truth.  Monsieur C. Auguste Dupin, if you will, reincarnated as a mid 19th century creative writer.  And Schechter himself is not above a bit of 'humbuguity' of his own.<br />Even so, this story is beautifully researched.  Countless details of Poe, New York City, and Barnum's American Museum (one of the many 'cabinets of curiosities' that preceded the establishment of the great natural history museums) abound.  Unfortunately, research does not make a compelling story.  As such, 'The Humbug' is more interesting than affecting, and a bit over-written.<br />I can accept the story, and some of its wilder escapes from the world of 'willing suspension of disbelief' as a parody of Poe's own writing style, but I would have been happier with a more natural Poe who showed more of the little defects of character that eventually undermined him.  The freshness of 'Nevermore,' Schechter's first effort in this series, pardoned its inherent problems.  But 'The Humbug' is simply too much of a good thing.  Thus, I cannot give it a wholehearted recommendation.hment of the great natural history museums) abound.  Unfortunately, research does not make a compelling story.  As such, 'The Humbug' is more interesting than affecting, and a bit over-written.  <br />I can accept the story, and some of its wilder escapes from the world of 'willing suspension of disbelief' as a parody of Poe's own writing style, but I would have been happier with a more natural Poe who showed more of the little defects of character that eventually undermined him.  The freshness of 'Nevermore,' Schechter's first effort in this series, pardoned its inherent problems.  But 'The Humbug' is simply too much of a good thing.  Thus, I cannot give it a wholehearted recommendation.	2003-07-17
1060239:US	53082946	RRP918X3X8JAK	0765303213	693038726	Underland (Renquist Quartet)	Books	4	6	10	N	Y	Genre Confusion	It used to be that vampire stores were, first and foremost, horror stories.  In the dark ages, long before Buffy, audiences read stories of evil creatures that lived forever, shunned sunlight, and looked at humans as self-delivering meals.  Now years later, the Buffy vampire is truest to form, and every new author has to find a new variation on an old theme.  Mick Farren's vampires, in his fourth novel in the Victor Renquist series, as of the 'there is a barely believable explanation for all this' school.<br />Of course, this depends on whether the average vampire junkie will swallow the idea that countless millennia ago aliens landed creating several biological species to keep our forbearers in check.  Naturally, one such species were the Nosferatu, who outlasted their masters, and haunt the night to this day.<br />For most of the first three volumes of this series, vampire history wasn't all that important.  Farren's habit being to play nest politics against an action plot.  But, gradually, his vampires have become more enmeshed in the modern, occult world around them.  In 'Underland,' with its strange m&eacute;lange of vampire, alien, Nazi, and prehistoric themes, the vampires are completely believable, but the plot stretches ones ability to willingly suspend disbelief.<br />If you don't mind a stirring story of a master vampire forcibly recruited by a top secret government agency to descend into an underworld culture run by the Nazi fugitives of World War II you will discover that Farren's writing talent is considerable.  Indeed, this is far from the 250 page pot-boiler that vampire lovers have come to expect.  The writer takes the time to build character and indulge in scene building.  I thing those readers who are ready to spend some time with the characters and their somewhat outlandish story will find much to enjoy	2003-07-05
1061677:US	53082946	R3O3EGX7GMZM1V	0744001986	280897224	Kingdom Hearts Official Strategy Guide (Signature Series)	Books	4	13	21	N	N	My Kingdom for a Map	Quite frankly, 'Kingdom Hearts' is one of those PS2 games that is bound and determined to give you your money's worth.  While this is to the good, it means lots of complex locations, innumerable side quests, and no lack of bosses to defeat.  It is quite possible to win the game and have played only half of what it has to offer.  Hence the need for a good guide.<br />Typical of a BradyGames guide, Dan Birlew errs on the side of providing too much detail.  When trying to extract a hint about what to do next or thumbing through to learn about the side quests, one has to be careful about finding out enough to spoil the whole problem.  BradyGames first solution to this is tiny print.  I have to squint so much just to find what I'm looking for that I rarely yield to the temptation to skim too far.  Their other solution is maps that are sometimes incomprehensible.  To put it better, the map only makes sense when you are already there.  This works, but it can be frustrating when all you want to do is figure out how to get back to the Dalmation house.<br />The guide contains all the standard bits - walkthrough, item lists, explanations, etc.  In retrospect, I think it is clearly written.  Even though there were moments when I was mid-game when I felt otherwise.  The book is well enough illustrated to be something of a keepsake.  Unlike some efforts, I feel it adds considerably to the experience of the game, which is one of the more remarkable RPG's available for the PS2.	2003-07-04
1067156:US	53082946	RSN19NES6KS6T	097116729X	379326920	Wired	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Something Wicked This Way Surfs	Someone has discovered the ultimate in copy protection.  Try to break into a programs code and a demonic face appears on your monitor, inviting you to pay or have your face ripped off.  And if you don't pay...  Following a bloody trail of corpses with missing faces, the police are baffled, and one Boston detective, Mike Baldwin, decides to break with tradition.  He calls on an old friend, Pam Whitby, who, with Kevin McKinley, runs a computer security and witchcraft consulting firm.<br />What ensues is a hair-raising hit and run battle with a black mage of extraordinary powers, who can unless demons and send spells via telephone.  In addition to his plans to use computer games to find sacrifices, their opponent seems to have a personal axe to grind as well.  While Kevin is an accomplished magician on his own, he is completely outclassed by this master, and the team must rely on their wits to overcome their disadvantage.<br />The action involves everything from inter-dimensional travel to counter-espionage in a unique mix of hi-tech and dark magic.  T. G. Browning's primary emphasis is the action, of course, but the author fills in the spaces with quick dialog and enough character development to hold the reader's attention in the infrequent lulls between face rippings and house meltings.<br />This turned out to be a better story than I had any right to expect.  As the first volume of a proposed trilogy, this bodes well for future reading.  There is a prequel story, which does play in the events in `Wired,' but reading it first is not really necessary.  Although, based on this effort it would be worth tracking down,	2003-06-30
1076677:US	53082946	R3FIQJF2HHAOMA	0743243498	637524594	The Lamplighter: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Light Bringer	It is not often that one picks out what appears to be an interesting work of genre serial killer suspense and discovers that the author has made a real effort write much more that simple, entertaining fair.  In fact, I'll start right out by warning the reader that, if you are looking for lots of blood and bits, this is not the book for you.  Instead, it is something else entirely.<br />Set in late Nineteenth Century Edinburgh, the surface story is about a series of catastrophically violent crimes that happen so quickly that witnesses are unable to describe the killer.  Two groups of investigators are drawn into the crimes.  The police are involved, of course, in the person of acting Chief Inspector Carus Groves.  He is a man whose experience is limited to mundane crimes, and whose imagination is limited to a suspicious and self-centered nature.  The other team consists of Thomas McKnight (ex-professor of logic and metaphysics) and Joseph Canavan an ex-graveyard watchman.<br />Groves is a tumult of action, often pointless, and a stream of suspicions that get in his way more often than not.  He is driven by his desire to succeed in a truly notable case, which will be a fitting cap for his memoirs.  McKnight and Canavan, representing both doubt and belief, carry their research out in the ethereal world of the mind.  The murders become a metaphor for the nature of the creative imagination and the power of both the mind and the spirit.<br />In between these two is Evelyn Todd, a young woman whose past is marred by a dark secret.  One that ties the victims together in a strange cabal that has echoes the religious brainwashing of the past few decades.  Suspicion falls on her, even though the crimes are bestial, and clearly beyond her capacity.  There is no question that she, and her dreams, are somehow central to the mystery, but each investigator sees the truth though a glass of his own making.<br />The real truth, if one may call it that, is far stranger than anyone's suspicions.  The players re-enact a Dantesque journey into the imagination, in search of a redemption that comes unexpectedly, much as the murderer did.  We are treated not simply to a murder mystery, but also to a wry and unique vision of the nature of evil.  O'Neill does this in such a fashion that the intellectual dialogue never bogs down the narrative pace, and with a fine sensitivity to the power of language.suspicions.  The players re-enact a Dantesque journey into the imagination, in search of a redemption that comes unexpectedly, much as the murderer did.  We are treated not simply to a murder mystery, but also to a wry and unique vision of the nature of evil.  O'Neill does this in such a fashion that the intellectual dialogue never bogs down the narrative pace, and with a fine sensitivity to the power of language.	2003-06-23
1083541:US	53082946	R1GAQV9GXA3CCY	0744002761	906387493	.hack(tm) Part 2: Mutation Official Strategy Guide (Official Strategy Guides (Bradygames)) (Pt. 2)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Useful Information	Given that .hack//MUTATION is a fairly linear game of only moderate complexity, writing a strategy guide must be a special challenge.  Many publishers would give into the temptation to fill the guide with great numbers of screen shots and side stories in an effort to make a collectors item out of what would otherwise be a thin effort.  For some reason, BradyGames rarely gives into that temptation, and this guide is a classic example of providing all the needed information without burying it in glitz.<br />They provide a straightforward and complete walkthrough, plenty of information on side quests, and all the usual weapon and monster details.  Maps are provided where needed, and, yes, there still is room for plenty of screen shots.  They are especially good at detailing the moves necessary to deal with the game's deadly bosses.  And grunty races as well - although nothing could save me from my inept reflexes.<br />I am not sure if a guide is necessary for playing .hack//MUTATION, but if you like them as I do, you will find that this guide delivers everything it should in useful form.  There are two more of these still to come in the series though, so you may want to wait until you are legitimately stumped.	2003-06-18
1086058:US	53082946	R2I2VRKOPC54L1	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Mother Hunt	When an author has been writing a series through 29 volumes, there is always the possibility of the stories taking on a 'cookie cutter' similarity.  To some degree, this is unavoidable, since a series requires a certain predictability in its characters and type of plot.  Robert Parker's Spenser novels are no exception to this rule, but Parker is one of those writers who can usually find a new twist, even in an old pattern.  'Back Story' is a grand example of Parker's story telling skills, still fresh after all these years.<br /><br />A friend of Spenser's 'nearly' adopted son, Paul Giacomin, Daryl Gordon, draws Spencer into the thirty-year-old murder of her mother .  The killing occurred in the middle of a bank robbery, committed by the Dread Scott Brigade, a 70's revolutionary group.  There were no witnesses, and no one was ever caught.  For Paul's sake, Spenser reopens the case and discovers a web of subterfuge surrounding the investigation.  FBI reports have been squelched, all the characters seem to have unexpected links to each other, and finally, Spenser's own life is threatened.<br /><br />Into this chaos steps Hawk, Spencer's long time friend and co-perpetrator.  These two are one of mystery's original black/white partnerships, and one of the hallmarks of Parker's style is the politically incorrect, whiplash banter that takes place between the two.  They make fun of their own stereotypes (and ours) while scaring their suspects witless.<br /><br />Spencer's other partner is his very significant other, Susan, who does not participate in the investigations but is often all that keeps Spenser on this side of sanity.  She adds wit, insight and an unselfconscious sexuality to what otherwise might be a grim story of tawdry revenge.<br /><br />The story, while not particularly complex, takes some surprising twists.  There is a high violence content, not unusual for Spencer and Hawk, but Parker always manages to use violence without making it into an end in itself.  What is unusual this time is Spencer's own introspection at the brutal aspect of his nature.  Feeling his own maturity, he begins to wonder what he is really looking for.  Susan, the psychologist, has answers, and the pair seem to grow before the reader's eyes.<br /><br />Thoroughly modern, 'Back Story' reads like vintage Parker - a swiftly moving plot, snappy dialogue, and respectable characters.  Even if you have skipped the last few, I think you will find this one worth reading.  Newcomers need have no fear.  The relationship between the characters becomes clear quickly, and the story does not depend on any of the 29 previous novels.pencer's own introspection at the brutal aspect of his nature.  Feeling his own maturity, he begins to wonder what he is really looking for.  Susan, the psychologist, has answers, and the pair seem to grow before the reader's eyes.    Thoroughly modern, 'Back Story' reads like vintage Parker - a swiftly moving plot, snappy dialogue, and respectable characters.  Even if you have skipped the last few, I think you will find this one worth reading.  Newcomers need have no fear.  The relationship between the characters becomes clear quickly, and the story does not depend on any of the 29 previous novels.	2003-06-16
1092182:US	53082946	R10TDIN9RBTQPP	0743427580	945278570	Impressions (ANGEL)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Trust No One	With the TV Buffy-verse  in turmoil, and plots getting more and more complicated, it is almost a relief to pick up an Angel novel set in what now feel like calmer times.  'Impressions' is set in from the post-Darla period, with everyone moved back into the Hyperion Hotel.  The group hasn't quite come together yet, but working relationships are calm.  Even if Gunn jumps every time Angel moves too quickly around him.<br />In a far off pocket dimension an apprentice demon sneezes - really sneezes - and precipitates an artifact into Los Angeles that could cause the great demon riots of 2002 and end the world.  Naturally the stone falls into the wrong hands, a group of demon priests appear to recapture the stone, and the Angel team gets caught between demons, bad guys, and a rock that threatens to change Angel back into Angelus.<br />The result is an extended chase scene with distractions like an Angel imitator and the occupation of Caritas but a large number of terrified demons to break up the pace.  Angel struggles against the influence of the stone, Gunn worries about the new neighborhood defense force he is training, and Cordelia starts having a vision an hour.  There is a lot going on here, both in the Los Angeles and inside the members of the team.<br />As you can see Doranna Durgin is a writer who likes to keep the readers attention, and she does a very good job of it.  Durgin very much captures the personalities of the players and lets them unfold a but as we read.  Even if Angel is really formula fiction, she shakes out the cobwebs a bit and creates something that feels a bit new.  I hope she gets an opportunity to write more about Angel before the sun finally rises on my favorite vampire horse opera.	2003-06-11
1094450:US	53082946	R334ATZX43LEOT	0553582445	130881552	Fool's Errand (Tawny Man #1)	Books	4	25	32	N	Y	Slow Beginnings	I have read several of Robin Hobb's books when she wrote under the name of Megan Lindholm and liked them.  Not realizing they were the same, I never gave her previous trilogies much of a looking at.  At last, I decided to try &quot;Fool's Errand,&quot; since I thought it was the start of something new.  Now that is not the case, so I found myself midstream in a long series without an anchor, desperately piecing together the rest of the story.<br />Of course, it didn't quite work.  I found myself reading an obviously well written story without any sympathy for the main characters.  And fighting Hobb's tendency to drag out each action for everything it was worth.  This would be okay if I was expecting it, but &quot;Fool's Errand&quot; gets off to an extremely slow start as FitzChivalry Farseer is gradually pried out of an idyllic life in his forest cottage with his bonded wolf Nighteyes, and adopted son Hap, and re-enters the service of the Queen of the Six Duchies.<br />The young prince has disappeared, and FitzChivalry takes up the disguise of Tom Badgerlock, servant to his old friend, the Fool, to help find him.  The rest of the story is a tale whose background is the painful place of the 'witted,' those who can bond with animals, in the social structure of the Six Duchies.  Once the action picked up, I gained interest, but never the sympathy one needs to really become engrossed.  Finally, I put the book down partially read and gave it a break.<br />And picked it up much later to find things were much better.  Obviously, the book hadn't changed, so I had adapted to the rhythm and characters over time.  While I still think the story suffers from an extremely slow pace, I found myself appreciating the writing more.  One thing I have to concede is that Hobb's leaves few loose ends.  And the ending is extremely satisfactory.<br />This is a book for readers who like to immerse themselves in character and detail, but not for those who seek adventure with every turn of the road.  In that sense, it is a rare event worth looking into.  I do think it would be best to start with the previous trilogy though, which provides much of the explanation and detail for &quot;Fool's Errand.&quot;  If this is your cup of tea, you will not be disappointed.the road.  In that sense, it is a rare event worth looking into.  I do think it would be best to start with the previous trilogy though, which provides much of the explanation and detail for &quot;Fool's Errand.&quot;  If this is your cup of tea, you will not be disappointed.	2003-06-09
1098150:US	53082946	R2N2SG4CR6CL8P	0743223543	460904465	The Bone Vault: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	The Three Museum Shell Game	This is my first Linda Fairstein book, and I must say, even though this is a mixed review, that I am impressed.  She uses the occasion of the discovery of a freakishly preserved corpse discovered in a sarcophagus where only a mummy should have been to write a detailed and convincing police procedural about the world behind the exhibits in several of the world's most famous museums.  As I discovered with 'The Relic,' I am a sucker for stories that play out in the almost gothic settings these museums and their secret places provide.<br />Alexandra Cooper, head of the Manhattan DA's Sex Crimes Unit, becomes involved in this case as the result of attending a museum event announcing a new joint exhibit to be created but the Metropolitan, the Cloisters, and the Museum of Natural History.  When the body is discovered while in the process of shipment, she is asked to consult, and brings in the Manhattan Police Department when it becomes clear that this is a murder case.  Thereby triggering a steady stream of museum political wrangles and infighting.  Balancing this is her regular caseload of criminal investigations and prosecutions.  This makes for a rich and satisfying story with plenty of mystery, complications, and personality.<br />I have to issues with the narrative, however.  The first is that Fairstein writes almost an entire chapter using the events of 9/11 to build sympathy for both Alexandra Cooper and her colleague, Mike Chapman.  Personally, I do not think this was necessary, certainly not to the extent that it was done.  Moreover, at the end of it all, we really know very little more about either character.  I think there are more effective ways to honor the lives lost on that day, and more effective ways to do character development.<br />On a more literary note, Fairstein puts considerable energy into creating suspense with a complicated and interwoven story line.  Thus building into what should have been a climactic ending where the solution to the crime should have been an epiphany.  Instead, the plot simply unravels, and the ending, while still a bit surprising, does not live up to its harbingers.  You want the conclusion to be shattering, the material is there, but it simply does not happen.<br />Despite my complaints, this is an eminently readable story, and so far Fairstein hasn't fallen for the excessive angst that eventually ruined Patricia Cornwell's series.  The detailing about the museums is wonderfully fine, worth the price of admission on its own.  I intend to go back and read 'The Deadhouse,' her first novel, and will watch for new work from her as well.ld have been an epiphany.  Instead, the plot simply unravels, and the ending, while still a bit surprising, does not live up to its harbingers.  You want the conclusion to be shattering, the material is there, but it simply does not happen.<br />Despite my complaints, this is an eminently readable story, and so far Fairstein hasn't fallen for the excessive angst that eventually ruined Patricia Cornwell's series.  The detailing about the museums is wonderfully fine, worth the price of admission on its own.  I intend to go back and read 'The Deadhouse,' her first novel, and will watch for new work from her as well.	2003-06-06
1103300:US	53082946	R11FVMI3K0THS8	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Just Passing Time	One of Terry Pratchett's knacks (he has several) is the ability to take an essentially serious theme and mine it for countless funny bits, but never losing sight of the larger themes that lurk behind his wry tales.  Sam Vimes, once a patrolman in Ankh-Morpork's Night Watch, now Duke of Ankh and Commander of the City Watch, thought his world was becoming reliably predictable.  And in law enforcement, this is considered a 'good thing.  Especially when one's wife is expecting, immanently.  So Vimes was ill prepared when a bolt of lightning catapulted him and the psychotic he was trying to arrest, straight through the roof of the Unseen University and into the past.<br />Vimes has a long history of coping.  Now he took in stride the discovery that he had suddenly become the man responsible for showing himself how to be a good cop in the first place.  He takes the place of Sergeant John Keel (conveniently killed by Carcer, the psychotic who started all this) and sets about trying to teach young Sam Vimes how to keep the peace.  Distracted only by the fact than Ankh-Morpork was about to experience its own version of the French Revolution - The Glorious People's Republic of Treacle Mine Road.  And if Sam (the elder) doesn't get it all to come out right, he has no hope of returning to his own present and his newborn son.<br />This is a complicated tale.  Even the basic plot - making sure that history happens as it should - is an enormous task.  Nor has Pratchett chosen a narrow stage on which to enact the plot.  You will find almost every key Ankh-Morpork character (and just a few others) running about the scenery acting 30 years younger.  Except Death, of course.  He's there, but he is never gets any younger.  You will meet Reg before he becomes a zombie and 'Cut my own throat' Dibbler before any of his great failures.  And even Lord Vetinarii before he...  Well, that would be giving away too much of the plot.<br />Pratchett makes this all weave together as if it really happened.  Alternating between characters full of self-effacing humor and grim determination in equal parts.  Revolutions, after all, are not funny business.  'Night Watch' is less of a lampoon than a social commentary with a twist.  It comforts us little that all this is happening on a turtle far away.  This world has no lack of characters even grimmer than the villains of this piece (security officers and greedy politicians).  Pratchett provides a gentle reminder that the business of keeping the peace takes hardnosed determination.<br />Perhaps because of the ambivalent mood of the book, it seems a bit more than many of its predecessors. This wasn't dashed off, and the characters are all filled in some detail.  It asks questions, and doesn't always offer an answer.  Pratchett is noted for bending people's minds, but less for making the reader think.  I like the change.  This is a book to be read slowly and relished.ppened.  Alternating between characters full of self-effacing humor and grim determination in equal parts.  Revolutions, after all, are not funny business.  'Night Watch' is less of a lampoon than a social commentary with a twist.  It comforts us little that all this is happening on a turtle far away.  This world has no lack of characters even grimmer than the villains of this piece (security officers and greedy politicians).  Pratchett provides a gentle reminder that the business of keeping the peace takes hardnosed determination.<br />Perhaps because of the ambivalent mood of the book, it seems a bit more than many of its predecessors. This wasn't dashed off, and the characters are all filled in some detail.  It asks questions, and doesn't always offer an answer.  Pratchett is noted for bending people's minds, but less for making the reader think.  I like the change.  This is a book to be read slowly and relished.	2003-06-02
1111443:US	53082946	R3IKH23LTGKIOY	0761542639	91093018	Dark Cloud 2 (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	3	26	26	N	N	Evil Rabbit Seeks End of World	Dark Cloud 2 is one of those games that desperately need a strategy guide.  The game simply has too much going on.  While not knowing something is rarely fatal, you will miss a fair number of things if you play from the ground up.  This means going back and redoing stuff when you finally figure out what is wrong (if you figure out that something is wrong) or overcompensating by extensive leveling up.<br />It is no surprise that this guide is over 200 pages.  Prima has a high standard for attractive packaging, and this is no exception.  The material is generally accurate (I did find a few glaring mistakes) but is less successful from the viewpoint of clarity and coverage.  This is one of the few guides I have read where so much effort has been made to avoid spoilers that the authors forgot that a strategy guide is supposed to be part spoiler.  Because of this quirk, fairly straightforward information has been obscured or left out.<br />Take maps, for instance.  Unfortunately, there aren't any.  This is a game that always rearranges its dungeons, so maps can generally be done without.  But, there are fixed locations where maps would help.  These areas are important sources of supplies and character improvement materials.  Just the place where a little help could go a long way to ease the craziness of the game.<br />Another example is improving weapons.  As you move along in the game, it gradually comes clear that your weapons are never strong enough.  It took me a while to realize that powering up is much more complicated than either the manual or the guide indicate.  If you don't catch on to this, the last parts of the game can get very frustrating.<br />So, this is a mixed review.  I couldn't have done as well as I did with the game without the help provided by the guide.  In that sense it is a great success.  But what was left out contributed to a great deal of my frustration.  I'm coming to the conclusion that guides are becoming too fixed on large amounts of supplemental, cool, (and basically useless) materials (to compensate for being expensive and of limited use) and less on making sure that coverage is good.  Even so, I don't think the buyer is going to be disappointed, but be prepared for a lot of unexpected quirks.lemental, cool, (and basically useless) materials (to compensate for being expensive and of limited use) and less on making sure that coverage is good.  Even so, I don't think the buyer is going to be disappointed, but be prepared for a lot of unexpected quirks.	2003-05-26
1128215:US	53082946	R2VECHRTX3JNBE	1569718938	667293966	Lone Wolf 2100 Volume 1: Shadows on Saplings	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	"They were a force of nature"	When I saw that Dark Horse Comics was starting a new Lone Wolf series set in the 22nd Century, I was quite interested.  Typical of me, I really didn't think through the changes required to move the story several hundred years into its future.  How this is done will make or break the story, especially since the moody atmospherics of the original series is so well known.<br />Instead of a father and son team, we find Itto, the Lone Wolf, is a battle android of awesome powers.  He is fleeing Cygnat Owari's corporate hegemony where he was once high in its security organization.  A modern samurai, if you will.  His young companion is the small daughter of Dr. Ogami, who was working on a cure for a war created plague before Itto was ordered to kill him.<br />Thus the story's basis echoes the original, but many of the similarities are indistinct.  Daisy, the young girl, is still nothing like the original son - she is a purely passive plot device.  The technology overwhelms the story while what made the original was the careful cultural setting.  And Itto falls short of the ingenuity of his predecessor.<br />Really the differences are extensive, but that is the creators' right.  This is not intended as a slavish imitation, but a new thing that acknowledges its origins.  But, I found it quite jarring at first when things refused to settle into the old pattern.  Once I got my head around it, though, I began to like the work more and more.  However, I do think it lacks a bit of the artistry of the original series.<br />The artwork is good - in color as well.  It has moments where it captures the original style.  I thought that it as almost to wordy, but there is a lot to explain in the first issue to get the reader oriented.  Given a chance to develop, the series has considerable potention, and is worth hunting down for a close examination.	2003-05-11
1132559:US	53082946	R1F6HUTILPYI9Z	1569317941	665138471	Spirited Away, Vol. 4	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The Sister and the Golden Seal	Now that we are past the middle of this story (this is volume for of 5) the action picks up quite a bit.  No Face, the spirit that young Sen let in earlier has turned into a disaster, determined to eat whatever food the bath house has to offer and paying in showers of gold.  On the down side, however, the spirit has a tough time differentiating staff from the food, throwing everything into chaos.<br />As this is going on, Sen sees a white dragon being chased across the sky by paper birds.  This is Haku, the young mage, who is badly wounded in his efforts to steal magic.  Surprisingly, Sen shows fierce loyalty to her friend, courageously facing the dangers of the bathhouse in order to save his life.  The girl has come a long way from the spoiled child who first happened into this strange work.<br />When I first found this series, the film was still unavailable to US audiences.  As such they were the only option for English speakers who wanted to see Miyazaki's latest work and get a sense of the flow of the film.  They do this quite well for what is essentially a still medium, spending a lot of frames building a chain of movement.  This is done with cels from the film, so the normal comic approach doesn't prevail.  When I look at the illustration, I think of a parent reading a book to a child and pointing to a string of pictures as, say, a dragon twists and loops in the sky.<br />Indeed, this set is perfect for that purpose.  It is also a delightful memento of a wonderful film.  Miyazaki's imagination is always stunning and unique.  There are many good anime artists, but fewer great artists who happen to do anime.  Film or no film, I intend to own the entire set.	2003-05-07
1138677:US	53082946	R3DGPEZ6FSUFTP	0441010091	317086570	Cold Streets (Vampire Files, No. 9)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	The Gangster, the Psychotic, and the Vampire	Pat Elrod has been writing about vampire Jack Flemings adventures for longer than most vampires survive.  Killed, thrown in Lake Michigan, and resurrected - we have followed Jack from helpless fledgling to assistant to a detective and nocturnal owner of the Lady Crymsyn nightclub.  Jack has a knack of making shady friends (and girlfriends) from Chicago's underworld, a penchant for heroism, and, unfortunately, is non-living proof that becoming a vampire does not increase one's intelligence.<br />In this episode Jack starts out by breaking up a kidnapping for his friend Escott.  One of the kidnappers turns out to be both psychotic and resistance to Jack's trips.  The worst happens, Jack is spotted sipping his favorite cow, and now faces blackmail and exposure at the hands of a ne'er-do-well society member will the morals of a snail.<br />The counterplot involves Jack's old friend Gordy - crime boss and fellow nightclub owner.  A New York gangster shows up wanting to take over the territory.  Yes another psychotic, with a tendency to get drunk and nasty.  The ensuing crisis catapults Jack into temporary leadership of the local crime ring with results that would be comic if they weren't so horrific.<br />Elrod isn't one to deviate from a hitherto successful formula, so Jack does what he does best - make a mess of things.  One would think that, after eight novels in which he is perpetually being shot up, knocked unconscious by wooden chairs, and otherwise embarrassed in the pursuit of goodness , that Jack would have figured out that vampires should also stay away from places where angels fear to tread.  But such is not to be the case.<br />Hapless vampires to not necessarily make great protagonists.  What is cute, or funny loses interest when the same thing happens time after time.  If I was a vampire with Jack's luck, I would willingly ride off into the sunrise - and kiss my horse every night.  What saves the book is what always does - Elrod's writing ability, which makes a mundane plot sparkle enough to keep up one's interest.  But even that time is coming to an end.  This will probably be the last in this series for me - while it remains an enjoyable confection.es a mundane plot sparkle enough to keep up one's interest.  But even that time is coming to an end.  This will probably be the last in this series for me - while it remains an enjoyable confection.	2003-05-01
1140675:US	53082946	R34Q3J67BW1D4E	0744002397	975509719	Xenosaga(TM) Official Strategy Guide (Bradygames Strategy Guides.)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	"Oh what a tangled web we weave"	I have remarked elsewhere that Zenosaga is a game where the devil is in the details - all the myriad details.  The plot marches cheerfully onward from (lengthy) cut scene to (even longer) cut scenes.  But the action is complicated by countless possibilities for character development and weapons/equipment strategies.  Not to mention puzzles, special quests and side quests.  It is simply too much to keep in your mind if you hope to touch most of the games bases.<br />Take characters, for instance.  You can build basic traits (strength, etc.), spell casting, technical attacks, and personal skills.  You can don mechs, upgrade weapons, and tune your engines.  To, while maps are important to finding everything, the real test of a guide is how well it brings all the rest of the confusion together.<br />I have to hand it to Birlew and Parkinson for managing to present all this material in a manner that makes good, usable sense.  This is a 224-page guide, and you will wind up reading most of it.  For the most part it is clearly written, well illustrated, and contains only a few glaring errors.  None of the latter are disastrous, just irritating when you are trying to figure something out.<br />I have no qualms about using guides.  Especially in a case like Xenosaga, where the designers obviously were planning an all out war with the players.  Games like this scream out for maps and lists and charts, and here they are.  One of my measures of the quality of a walk-thru if it extends enjoyable game play, and this effort meets that criterion head on.  Well worth the cost.	2003-04-30
1151972:US	53082946	R19X5ZMDEZ3SE5	0934438579	689819764	The Pnume (Planet of Adventure, Vol. 4)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Silent Caverns Full of Memories	Having outwitted the three alien races that dominate Tschai, with the vessel that will take him back to Earth, Adam Reith encounters one last obstacle.  The Pnume, who keep millions of years of history crystallized in their caverns have noticed Reith.  And have decided he is a prime collectible.  Aila Woudiver, who would like to see Reith dead, sells him to the Gzhindra, Pnumekin who wander Tschai's surface in the service of their underground masters.<br />Reith, by virtue of quick thinking, manages to arrive in the depths as a fugitive, rather than a prisoner.  And so begins a series of adventures and travels more extensive than any that have happened so far.  He kidnaps a young Pnumekin woman - to be named ZAP 210 and convinces her to lead him to freedom.  No small task in a world full of secrets.  But with the aid of a stolen map, they are on their way.  Gradually, ZAP 210 finds Reith's 'boisterous' behavior less and less repellent.  Achingly slowly, their relationship matures and becomes the second story of the series.<br />Vance gives us a whirlwind tour of yet another facet of life on Tschai, making us privy to the society of the Pnume and their servants.  Quiet and subdued, their entire focus is the keeping of 'Foreverness,' their great museum.  And on the surface, we discover such thinks as crooked ell racing.  Vance again proves his ability to paint his story in vivid colors and deftly go beyond the constraints of simple action fiction.<br />This ends a series that I will always consider one of Vance's best efforts.  He will go on to write countless new tales, and with each one, I always wonder, &quot;Will this be just as good as...&quot;  Almost without fail, it is.  But only rarely is it better.	2003-04-20
1158692:US	53082946	R2U5AXV6PVOYIX	0234773073	605416252	The Dirdir	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Who Hunts the Hunters?	Tschai, whose original inhabitants are the mysterious Pnume, has been invaded three times.  Several waves of the harsh and opportunistic Chasch, then the Dirdir, and finally, the distant Wankh.  Somehow, in the midst of this, humanity was imported and is considered under-men, servants to the alien races.  When a help beacon is received on Earth an investigation is sent, only to be shot out if space.  The sole survivor is Adam Reith, marooned on an unpredictable planet, on an odyssey to find a way to acquire another ship and return home.<br />In the first two volumes of this series, Reith survives encounters with the Chasch and Wankh, falls in and out of love, and accumulates several good friends.  Most important, he has come to realize that the only way back to space is through the Sivishe space yards that serve the Dirdir.  In addition, the only way to have a ship is to build it at an incredible price.  Insurmountable problems to anyone but Reith, who always seems to greet adversity with a stylish equanimity.<br />To gain the money, Reith must gain the upper hand over the Dirdir, who regard the fields where the gems are found as a sacred hunting ground.  Not for jewels, but for the humans who seek them.  Predator chases predator across the fields of the Carabas.  One seeks wealth, the other seeking dinner.  Reith, of course, gets his sequins in an unorthodox manner, and earns the enmity of the Dirdir in the process.<br />Under cover, Reith, Anacho and Traz make their way to Sivishe and commission the spaceship.  Of course, the cost is extravagant and they must deal with Aila Woudiver, a merchant.  Woudiver has two character flaws - he is infinitely corrupt and venal, and he desperately wants to be a Dirdir.  The latter may be impossible, but that detail has escaped the merchant's psychotic thinking.  For Reith, complication mounts on complication, and his ability to cope will be severely taxed.<br />While none of this series lacks for action, 'The Dirdir' probably has the most ornate and exciting plot.  Reith may not have the flair of the dashing hero of a medieval romance, but he is surprisingly loyal and chivalrous.  His flaw in this book is a bit too much optimism, which leads him to become his own worst enemy on several occasions.  Considerable time is spent on the Dirdir and their culture, revealing Vance's unique ability to fabricate worlds and peoples out of whole cloth.  This series and the Demon Princes represent the best of Vance's early science fiction in what was to be a long and fruitful career.y has the most ornate and exciting plot.  Reith may not have the flair of the dashing hero of a medieval romance, but he is surprisingly loyal and chivalrous.  His flaw in this book is a bit too much optimism, which leads him to become his own worst enemy on several occasions.  Considerable time is spent on the Dirdir and their culture, revealing Vance's unique ability to fabricate worlds and peoples out of whole cloth.  This series and the Demon Princes represent the best of Vance's early science fiction in what was to be a long and fruitful career.	2003-04-14
1163871:US	53082946	R2ILW8IC0S5S06	0744002044	590691076	.hack Official Strategy Guide (Official Strategy Guides (Bradygames))	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Sometimes You Are Better Off on Your Own	.Hack - Infection is not a complicated game.  Despite all the marketing hype is a basic hack-and-slash, run dungeons until you drop mentality.  The plot of the game is minimalistic (although the plots of the associated DVD and the TV series are exactly the opposite).  So it is only fair for you to ask why I decided to pick up the strategy guide.  Well, there was this embarrassing thing about equipment manipulation I was slow to figure out, and maps of the dungeons are always comforting.<br />My early warning that all was not right was when I still had to figure out my problem myself.  In fact, this guide says very little about the fine points of operating the game and the characters.  Almost as little as the game itself.  And, since there is nothing complicated about the way the dungeons are constructed the maps are only good for making sure I hadn't missed any important treasures.  I admit that the narrative as told in the book is considerably more extensive than in the game itself.<br />And the extensive tables are very useful - except when they are wrong.  Which is what has me so irritated - errors that create non-productive game play.  These are generally about which characters or critters have something that would be useful to have.  You have to weigh this disadvantage against the value of the information included, and I find that this is a guide written a little before it should have been.  I don't think the book is as value added as it should be, especially since the game itself forces you to take the right path through.<br />I've complained at other times about guides that exist mostly to make money of a game, and this is one of them.  If you are looking for a slickly illustrated book about the game this might be exactly your cup of tea.  Since understanding the fine details of .Hack/Infection is not necessary for a successful win you will probably feel, as I do, that I simply should have tried to go it alone a little longer.<br />One last thing, the author isn't Dan Birlew but Doug Walsh.isn't Dan Birlew but Doug Walsh.	2003-04-10
1168076:US	53082946	R1AEK3WVKPBJPC	0744001404	134452549	Final Fantasy X Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games Signature Series)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Sometimes You Need a Leg Up	Many published guides exist for games that simply do not need umpty dozen slick pages of fan information and a simple-minded walkthrough. These are simply marketing maneuvers to increase profitability.  But occasionally, a game comes along that is so complicated and secretive that simply following the linear path may win you the game, but miss the real richness and effort put into it.  Final Fantasy X (FFX) is one of those games that come along so rarely, and the possession of this strategy guide will greatly enhance play.<br />Technically, this guide is typical in format.  It starts with an introduction to the game, its main characters, and the spiritual forces called Aeons.  There is a discussion of the unique system for acquiring enhancing abilities, discussions of weapons and armor, key items, shops, etc.  Following the walkthrough are sections on side quests, secrets of the game, how to play blitzball (something I never mastered), an extensive bestiary and some interviews with the creative staff.  This is a glossy, 270-page dissertation on the game - an alarming amount of information.<br />The walkthrough itself is quite thorough, complete with the customary maps, illustrations, and directions.  The discussion, however, is not always in the best order, creating the possibility that over reliance on the guide may lead the player to make some irritating, but not fatal mistakes.  Some of the diagrams for the puzzles are also a bit hazy, perhaps deliberately.  In any case, this is a complicated game, and even a guide like this will miss some details.  I think this is for the best, actually.  It keeps the player from simply connecting the dots.<br />There is a real danger that the extra quests, etc., will lead the player to over-level the characters.  It is possible to get to the point that the final series of battles is something of an anti-climax.  Keep this in mind when using the guide.  Some help is a blessing, but too much can spoil the show.  Even so, this is the best resource for extending game play.  If you want to squeeze the last few drops of value from the game, this is what you need.the best resource for extending game play.  If you want to squeeze the last few drops of value from the game, this is what you need.	2003-04-07
1171643:US	53082946	R922XYXZJZTHC	0934438226	706004652	Servants of the wankh (Tschai)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Oceans and Spaceyards.	This is the second volume in The Planet of Adventure series, and finds Adam Reith, Traz and Anacho accompanying Ylin Ylan, the lovely Flower of Cath, on her journey home.  There, despite a deteriorating relationship with the young woman, Reith hopes to convince her father to help him acquire or build a space ship.  They proceed almost haphazardly across Tschai's continents drawing closer to Cath, but not without incident.<br />A faltering floater carries them on to where they can seek sea voyage.  And then, with the irritating addition of Dordolio, one of Ylin Ylan's countrymen, they set sail across the Draschade Ocean.  The voyage contains both discoveries and tragedies, leaving a wiser Adam Reith to navigate the complexities of Cath society.  Since this is only the second volume, I think it does no harm to admit that getting passage off planet remains out of reach.<br />But, amid the intrigue of Cath, Reith encounters Zarfo Detwiler, a man who finds the challenges of getting the party to the shipyards of the Wankh just his cup of tea.  The Wankh are the latest invaders of Tschai, and have minimal contact with the world about them other than through their servitors, the Wankhmen.  Once again, Reith's problem solving approach creates the maximum disturbance in what were previously orderly societies.  One has to wonder if Tschai will survive Reith's return home.<br />My raving about Vance's write is probably becoming tedious to the reader's of my recent reviews.  Suffice it to say, he was one of the truly great writers of science fiction and had far reaching influence is surprising corners.  These stories are as fresh as they were 30 years ago and will no doubt remain popular when we return to the Stone Age and have to chisel them into walls.  Please take the trouble to try a volume; you will no doubt be a fan forever.	2003-04-03
1175102:US	53082946	R16XZB7YOJ3G5L	0879974613	460553741	City of the Chasch	Books	5	9	9	N	N	In Search of a Ride Home	Jack Vance is truly an American treasure.  A prolific writer of science fiction, fantasy and mystery stories which are consistently readable and often remarkable.  My own experience with Vance started with two of his most influential series, 'The Demon Princes' and 'Planet of Adventure,' of which this book is the first.  In them, the author demonstrates a fine talent for the building of worlds and the peoples that inhabit them, never quite venturing into the improbable, and often making the unlikely more real than this world of our own.<br />When the Explorator IV is dispatched to Carina 4269 to investigate a distress signal, Adam Reith is one of the scouts on the mission.  Quiet and competent, he is still unprepared when the Explorator IV is destroyed by a missile from the planet's surface, and his scout ship plummets to the surface.  Reith survives (barely) and is found by a dour nomadic people called the Kruthe, or Emblem Men.  Reith quickly discovers that Tschai, as the world is called, is like no other.<br />Four non-human races make up the rulers of Tschai, the Chasch, the Dirdir, the Wankh, and the Pnume (with their close relatives the Phung).  In this complicated environment humans seem to have appeared by accident.  On Tschai, humanity is an underclass, providing services to the other races, or wandering the planet like Reith's nomads.  In this alien world Reith must find a way to return home and report his findings.<br />This will be far from easy.  In this volume, Reith must escape from the Kruthe and make his way to Dadiche, the city where his scout ship was taken.  Ruled by the Blue Chasch and their human servants, Dadiche is inhospitable at best, and often deadly dangerous.  Reith's adventures along the way are many, as we gradually learn that he is a man of ingenuity and principle, to the woe of those who work against him.  He makes loyal friends and challenges social inequities with the same aplomb that he rescues fair maidens like the lovely Ylin Ylan, the flower of Cath.<br />This slim volume is the beginning of a story that ably demonstrates Vance's fertile imagination and delightful narrative style.  Never too wordy, his language is still descriptively rich and his sense of humor wry.  Reith, like other Vance heroes, is quietly competent, soft spoken, and peculiarly romantic.  The other characters are brought to life with the use of rapid descriptive brush strokes and dialog that often amuses as it reveals.  Seek this series out and prepare for much enjoyment and delight.an, the flower of Cath.<br />This slim volume is the beginning of a story that ably demonstrates Vance's fertile imagination and delightful narrative style.  Never too wordy, his language is still descriptively rich and his sense of humor wry.  Reith, like other Vance heroes, is quietly competent, soft spoken, and peculiarly romantic.  The other characters are brought to life with the use of rapid descriptive brush strokes and dialog that often amuses as it reveals.  Seek this series out and prepare for much enjoyment and delight.	2003-03-31
1179245:US	53082946	R2SBHPVV0D937T	1569317933	665138471	Spirited Away, Vol. 3	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	"If you forget it, you'll never find your way home"	Imagine being a typical, slightly self-centered 10-year-old girl, and suddenly finding yourself the only human employee at the Abura Ya, a bathhouse for the spirits.  Your parents have turned into pigs, and if you cannot find a way, they will eventually become snacks for customers of the resort.  Your employer is a giant old woman named Yubaba, who drives a hard bargain and intends to make you work every moment.<br />This is Chihiro Ogino's lot in the manga version of Hayao Miyazaki's 'Spirited Away.'  Certainly a tough role for an adult to deal with, one cannot help but admire Chihiro (now called Sen) for her fierce determination.  In the world of Abura Ya she manages to find friends like Haku, a teenage boy with magical powers, and Lin, the co-worker who looks after Chihiro and helps her snatch victory from the jaws of defeat.<br />In this third volume Chihiro starts her job as a bath attendant, performing the backbreaking labor of scrubbing floors and baths and waiting on customers.  When an awesome stink spirit shows up for a wash, no one wants to go near it.  Naturally, Chihiro gets stuck with the job.  What ensues is a surprise for all as Chihiro discovers that she has strange friends in even stranger places.<br />Some notes.  These beautifully colored manga are done in Japanese order [right to left, top to bottom].  At first, this is a bit confusing, but after a while, it gets to be fun.  In addition, it preserves the effect of the original manga page layouts, which really is the best way to present them.  Japanese sound effects are left as is, but a translation guide is included.	2003-03-27
1184144:US	53082946	R1GG6TSIHVF88A	1931514917	644893028	Cowboy Bebop # 1	Books	4	6	7	N	N	In Search of a Payoff	It is no surprise that Cowboy Bebop refuses to die.  Certainly one of the most successful action/comedy series of recent years, it really set a new standard for what anime is capable of when science fiction is focused on the characters rather than on giant mecha and evil aliens.  Now that a new film is about to be released in the US, I though it would be interesting to read the manga.<br />Of course, I was hoping for a continuation from the spectacular ending, but that is not the case.  These stories are set sometime after all the characters come together, but before the final five episodes of the series.  In itself, this isn't a cause for disappointment.  This volume contains four stories.  The first is a classic comedy of errors when Faye, Jet, and Spike trip over each other on a trio of quests.  The next sends Spike to jail in order to free a wanted man.  Then an unhappy misogynist decides to take on all the female bounty hunters in known space.  Finally, we get a classic bad cop story that echoes Jet's past.<br />This all sounds like fun, but I was honestly a bit disappointed.  The stories are written for a younger audience (13+) and this weakens the narrative development.  While Faye does some obligatory fan service, the truth is that the stories a mostly innocuous, lacking the biting dialog and styling of the original series.  The illustration is a cut above average, but the vision is a bit claustrophobic.  It is still fun to read, but I am afraid we are going to have to wait for the second TV series to get complete satisfaction.	2003-03-23
1184589:US	53082946	R1NNREXVA0DAGO	0072227915	319773242	Ps2: Blow the Lid Off!	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Prying Under the Lid	I have to fault Sony for one thing.  They really do not want their customers knowing too much about how the PS2 works.  For someone like me, who goes back to the Atari 800, this is a bit disappointing.  Back in those days there was an entire subculture that lived for tinkering.  Times have changed, but I found the manuals for the PS2 almost secretive, when some openness would make good marketing sense.<br />Well, where there is a niche, someone will eventually rise to fill it.  In this case, Brian Underdahl has set down a great deal of information for the newly curious.  Early chapters are something of an expanded manual, covering installation, and the basic options needed to make the machine do its best (a later chapter covers playing DVDs and CDs).  Then there are chapters on games, connecting to the Internet, and networking machines.  The final chapters are on cheating, covering everything from where to go to get hints to gadgets that let you 'fudge' a game.  And a chapter on the kind of add-ons that will void your warranty.<br />The discussion is lucid, honest, and well illustrated.  Underdahl deserves credit for going beyond marketing to present straightforward information that will increase you enjoyment of your game machine.  I really wanted to find something that took more of a technical deep dive, but I have yet to discover a programmer's tutorial.  Even so, I found out several things that will easily save me the cost of the book.  For most people who are trying to figure out how to rig their machines, this is a Godsend.  Recommended.	2003-03-22
1186045:US	53082946	R2UVCQ5ZY0TIHI	1569317925	665138471	Spirited Away, Vol. 2	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	"Aren't you even going to knock?"	Having little or no will power, I have succumbed to the temptation to pick up more of these little specialty manga created from the cells of Hayao Miyazaki's latest anime creation, 'Spirited Away.'  This film has been a runaway bestseller in Japan, and is due for release in the US shortly.  When I bought the first volume as a novelty, my greatest concern was that the books would 'spoil' the plot.  However, after reading two volumes, I find I'm even more interested in seeing the film, which looks every bit as remarkable as 'Princess Mononoke,' another Miyazaki hit.<br />These are the story of Chihiro Ogino, a young girl whose parents have inadvertently wandered into a bathhouse for spirits and been turned into pigs. Chihiro is determined to rescue them and discovers that she must find a job in the bathhouse or suffer the same fate of her parents.  This volume is the story of her quest for employment, starting with the spider-like Kamaji who runs the hot water system to the giant Yubaba who is the matron of the resort.  One has to admire Chihiro's determination, even though she is actually a bit irritating in a little girl way.  Of course, I might be a bit self-centered and panicky if I found myself in the comic version of Motel Hell.<br />The styling is classic Miyazaki, with great work on the expressions of both the human and non-human characters.  These last come in every shape and type imaginable.  The dialog is minimalist.  Often, the plot is moved forward by the visual story, full of both menace and sight gags.  Another thing I like is, since the sound effects are in Japanese, someone has gone to the immense trouble of providing a frame-by-frame translation of them.  Just the thing for an adult who wants to read these aloud to a child.<br />One warning.  These manga done in Japanese order [right to left, top to bottom].  At first, this is a bit confusing, but after a while, it gets to be fun.  In addition, it preserves the effect of the original manga page layouts, which really is the best way to present them.  If these manga aren't over-distributed, then they may very well be eminently collectable.ts, which really is the best way to present them.  If these manga aren't over-distributed, then they may very well be eminently collectable.	2003-03-21
1195808:US	53082946	RVKQWJ7SQC9Y8	0500276625	974080903	Celtic Design: Animal Patterns	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Another in a Fine Series	Aidan Meehan has made himself into an advocate for the resurgence of Celtic design.  After years spent studying art in Ireland and Scotland, Meehan can claim not only historical expertise, but a wealth of technical expertise as well.  Meehan writes of the elements of Celtic design as something alive and vibrant that can be a welcome addition or inspiration to any artist's palette.<br />This small volume is a presentation of the use of animal patterns in jewelry and decoration from the Sutton Hoo burial, the Celtic gospels, and many other sources.  Meehan provides a basic historical discussion, but his focus is on how the designs were created.  Using a patient style and countless pen-and-ink drawings in a book that is an essay in the calligrapher's art, Meehan has produced another valuable, living reference in a long series.<br />Whether you are a jeweler, designer, or a tattoo specialist, there is much to draw on here.  The only thing I ever miss in Meehan's books is the inclusion of photographs of the original works.  I'm sure Meehan has very good reason's for the omission, but for the curious, this is a bit of a challenge.	2003-03-13
1196208:US	53082946	R31MQS0DEF7294	0451459067	966522728	Dhampir (Noble Dead)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Living Up To Ones Advertising	Dhampir has more alternate spellings than almost any occult term, enabling countless writers to get mileage out of what is often the same plot.  It signifies the natural child of a vampire and a human something that in most legends is only marginally possible.  In general, these creatures are not vampire friendly, often hunting and feeding on the undead side of their family.  They share the powers of a vampire, but to a lesser degree, and are able to walk in daylight.<br />So, when I picked this offering by Barb and J. C. Hendee, I expected another novel of semi-vampires chomping pure vampires, and simply hoped that it would be diverting.  Original ideas are as rare in horror fiction as they are most anywhere else, and one shouldn't expect much from an inexpensive first offering.  While 'Dhampir' is not earth shattering, it turns out to be a story with a couple of interesting twists and an engaging style.<br />Magiere and her half-elf friend Leesil make their living running a vampire scam, Leesil playing bloodsucker and Magiere pretending to be the ultimate bounty hunter.  Just as this ploy was getting tiresome (there are only so many villages to rescue), Magiere, who doesn't believe in vampires, accidentally kills one the right way.  Drawing undue attention, of course.<br />In one of those coincidences that are the meat of horror fiction, Magiere has decided to settle down by opening an inn in the same town that is home to a nest of vampires - friends of the one she killed.  It is easy to see where this is headed - lots of screaming villagers while Magiere discovers that she really was not faking her talent.<br />For the most part this is an enjoyable, and fairly ingenious story of vampire splatting in a medieval alternate world.  The characters are quite sympathetic, and the humans and almost humans behave like real folks instead of walking lunches.  Even the vampires aren't complete archetypes.  In fact, the only thing that bothered me was that the ending is over long, stretched out by the fumbling efforts of our prototype slayer and the inability of either side to get a clear victory.  It's as if the goal was as much to write a 400 page book as it was to produce a successful vampire novel.  Fortunately, the authors managed to succeed at both.er long, stretched out by the fumbling efforts of our prototype slayer and the inability of either side to get a clear victory.  It's as if the goal was as much to write a 400 page book as it was to produce a successful vampire novel.  Fortunately, the authors managed to succeed at both.	2003-03-12
1200502:US	53082946	RT50KYFP8S9WS	1569312931	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 9: Angel's Ascension	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beyond the Cyborg	All good things must come to an end, at least temporarily.  With this volume, Yukito Kishiro lifts ramps Alita's story up to a surprising new level, as the final stages of her battle with Desty Nova unfold.  Nova, surprised that Alita has broken free of his mental trap, uses the truth about the citizens of Tiphares to cause enough confusion to escape.  Alita follows, and is trapped again in Nova's mental coils.  This time the Doctor seeks to sap her will to live.  As the struggle develops, we get flashes of what might have been parts of Alita's past and future, which are in many ways the only explanation we will ever get.<br />At the scrap yard, Lord Den and Koyomi have arrived for the final assault on Tiphares.  In a last dramatic gesture, Den challenges the might of the sky city on his own, little realizing that the real struggle for the city's survival was happening elsewhere, as Alita challenges Nova and the city for the last time.  Suffice it to say, the book becomes one incredible series of images after another, as Alita transcends her limitations in an entirely mind-boggling and innovative fashion.<br />I always feel slow on the uptake when I completely miss a mystical reference.  Until I was staring at the final imagery of the series, I failed to realize that the names Tiphares (and Ketheres) are drawn from the Sephiroth of the Kabalah.  Tiphares means beauty, and Ketheres is the crown.  These have a natural explanation in the story, so it is hard to decide how deep this metaphysical layer runs.  I'll leave it for readers to judge for themselves.  It is curious how often such symbolism works it's way into Japanese anime as a metaphor for the mysterious.  Of course Evangelion comes to mind, and recently, X (the series) has made such references. A surprise addition to an already complex tale.<br />In any case, this phase of Alita's story comes to an end with a complete transformation of the order of her world.  We know there is more, because a new volume is promised.  This is a special manga, combining an intensely violent action story with an underlying theme of the nature of humanity and love.  One can find material to think about while watching the parts fly, all beautifully illustrated by an artist who should be considered one of Japan's best.  'Ascension' is a unique work of art in an already outstanding series.  I hope that Kishiro will keep the series alive for further incarnations.omised.  This is a special manga, combining an intensely violent action story with an underlying theme of the nature of humanity and love.  One can find material to think about while watching the parts fly, all beautifully illustrated by an artist who should be considered one of Japan's best.  'Ascension' is a unique work of art in an already outstanding series.  I hope that Kishiro will keep the series alive for further incarnations.	2003-03-09
1208981:US	53082946	REBMP5QEWBDNN	1569718296	516266279	Hard Looks: Adapted Stories (Book market edition)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	"Look Down, or Look Hard"	Andrew Vachss is a problematic short story writer.  His style is so frontal and minimalist that often the stories are over before they have penetrated intellectually.  Instead, the reader experiences a sudden burst of emotion or horror, leaving a stunned silence in its path.  To be honest I prefer his novels, which give the reader a grace period before the roller-coaster starts down the first big drop.<br />'Hard Looks' is really a compilation - 15 stories extracted from a Dark Horse comic-book series of the same name.  Most of these stories actually appeared originally in two short story collections - 'Born Bad,' and 'Everybody Pays.'  Six of the stories are strait text, the rest are adaptations of Vachss' stories to the graphic format.  The largest percentage were adapted by Neal Barrett, Jr., but a broad spectrum of other authors are represented, from Joe R. Lansdale to Charles de Lint.<br />Each story, graphic or not, is as tough as one can make a recreation of Vachss' work.  The stories are about people who are suddenly brought face to face with the reality that underlies their fantasies, whether it is a kid who dreams of being a big tough in the neighborhood or a woman working in a phone-for-thrills studio.  The only goodness that happens is on those rare occasions when evil loses the struggle.  In Vachss' world, that isn't often enough.<br />The illustration is pure pen and ink, by a variety of artists.  While the general styling is gritty and noir, there is considerable variation.  One of my few irritations with the book is that while the artists and adapters are given credit, they deserve a better introduction.  Especially since only a small part of Vachss' readership is familiar with the modern comic as art.  Like any experiment, some stories work better than do others, but over all, this is a very successful effort.  Fans will enjoy the graphic insight into a dark work, and, hopefully, this will mark the introduction of one of the our most intense writers to an entirely new readership.to an entirely new readership.	2003-03-03
1211705:US	53082946	R2WLEPL5JZAWVD	1569312435	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 8: Fallen Angel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;Aspire to reach heights&quot;	With Kaos's connection to Den revealed events in the surface conflict begin to pick up pace.  After a last broadcast, Kaos and Alita head for Nova's lair (the old NORAD headquarters), while Den prepares for his attack on Tiphares itself.  In the hanging city, things also get weird when Lou Collins discovers that the Tuned Model A-1 (that's Alita) is considered obsolete, replaced by robots programmed with Alita's knowledge and skills.  They are better, it seems, at following orders.<br />Kaos guides Alita to the farm where Desty Nova has allowed Doc Ido to live.  In doing so Alita stumbles on a tragedy that will act as the catalyst in a deep change in her feelings.  It would be unfair to say that it politicizes her, but it makes her rethink everything she is doing.  In the meantime, Den plays his greatest card in an effort to bring Tiphares into ruin.  Of course, nothing ever happens the way it should, and, in one stroke, the entire character of the revolution changes as well.<br />Now Alita confronts Desty Nova again.  The mad, sadistic physician attempts a last deal with Tiphares but finds that all his efforts are meaningless if he can't control Alita.  And Alita grows stronger with every challenge he throws at her.  Every time our angel falls, she ascends again.<br />This volume ties up many loose threads without really giving away that much of what is coming.  The pace is rapid, and each battle scene is wilder than the next.  After the relative slowdown of the beginning of the 'tuned' phase, creator Yukito Kishiro has decided to bear down and get the story into full motion again.  The layering of themes gets quite complex for a manga, the pieces moving into place for the grand finale in the next volume.	2003-02-28
1212743:US	53082946	RDUP3XQ5S37O9	1569317917	665138471	Spirited Away, Vol. 1	Books	5	13	15	N	N	"Calm down and take a deep breath"	I confess to a severe case of impatience.  I have been waiting for 'Spirited Away' to make it to the US for just too long.  Finally, I noticed this little set of manga based on the film and I lost all control and bought the first one of the set.  So much for will power.<br />This set is really nicely done.  They are small, almost pocket sized, but you would never want to put them in your pocket.  There is an outer wrap cover, as well as the inner, and the illustrations, entirely in color, are clearly the cels from the film.  They are beautiful to look at, in vibrant color and once again demonstrate that Miyazaki and the rest of Studio Ghibli remain masters of the art form.<br />The story is about Chihiro Ogima, who is 10, and her mother and father.  They are moving to a new home, Chihiro is very unhappy about all the changes, and her parents are not paying as much attention to her as she would like.  When her father takes a wrong turn, they happen on a strange amusement park.  The adults are changed into pigs via some weird magic, and Chihiro only survives in human form due to the intervention of Haku, a 12-year-old boy with some magical powers of his own.<br />The styling is classic Miyazaki, with great work on the expressions of both the human and non-human characters.  These last come in every shape and type imaginable.  Another thing I like is, since the sound effects are left in Japanese, someone has gone to the immense trouble of providing a frame-by-frame translation of them.  Just the thing for an adult who wants to read these aloud to a child.<br />One slight warning.  These manga are in Japanese order [right to left, top to bottom].  At first, this is a bit confusing, but after a while, it gets to be fun.  In addition, it preserves the effect of the original manga page layouts, which really is the best way to present them.  These comics are almost precious enough to be considered collectable.  I don't know if I will buy the rest of the set yet, but I wouldn't blame me one bit if I did.uldn't blame me one bit if I did.	2003-02-27
1215881:US	53082946	R4MLSISVOG159	0451410602	525614539	Deaths Door	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Killing Education	After following the adventures of Mounty Robert DeClercq and his cohorts in Special X through some 10 reincarnations, I can proudly say that I have discovered something called Thriller Writer's Stress Syndrome (TWSS).  It appears as a drive by a writer (or writers, in this case) to outdo previous volumes in a series in number of victims slaughtered, frequency of slaughters, or grossness of means.  \\"Death's Door\\" certainly attempts to set a new standard for acreage of surgically ruined corpses.  And for total number of psychotics between two covers.  And for the most extensive number of side-bar lectures used to fatten a plot (more about this later).<br />What starts out as an investigation into the bloodthirsty theft of a rare mummy that spans two continents, turns into the discovery of a snuff film studio, which then turns into the unmasking of what could best be described as a medical mayhem club, which...  You get the idea, every chapter of two the killings get worse and the killers get crazier.  This time we also get a case of incessant cliffhangers.  I cannot tell if it is deliberate, or accidental, but the book turns into an outrageous parody of the entire hack and slash genre.  It is funny in a \\"you dropped the coffin on my foot\\" way.<br />It would be much more effective if the writers would interrupt the plot less often for a lecture on anything from paraphilia to which side of their brains Native Americans use to think.  It is simply too much information - often distracting, and in the last case, more than a trifle offensive.  The writer's who make up Slade have always been prone to excess, but the last few volumes have been less successful at walking the thin line between a thriller and an encyclopedia of the grotesque.  This time the overload manages to distract from the intensity of the plot and reduce the impact of the crimes.<br />Despite all this, it is quite possible to like the underlying style despite its foibles.  Especially if the reader has a taste for the ridiculous, which I admit I do.  The Slade books can be an enjoyable way to fill a few hours of life's tedium.  But don't expect the bone-jarring horror of the first few volumes in the series.  This is mayhem a la mode.ste for the ridiculous, which I admit I do.  The Slade books can be an enjoyable way to fill a few hours of life's tedium.  But don't expect the bone-jarring horror of the first few volumes in the series.  This is mayhem a la mode.	2003-02-25
1217211:US	53082946	R11I5YK0AHTA1D	0448089017	873292778	The Tower Treasure	Books	5	154	161	N	Y	Shades of My Misspent Youth	Hopefully, the reader will not mind if I wax nostalgic for a paragraph, but The Hardy Boys were an important part of my childhood.  I got one book on the holidays and one for my birthday for some 5 years straight, and these were my entire personal library for some time.  I owe all the thousands of books I have come to enjoy to a royal elephant, a detective pig, and Frank and Joe, the two inquisitive sons of Fenton Hardy.  Now it is forty-some years later, and the temptation to see if I could go back again is simply too strong.<br />'The Tower Treasure' is the very first, in which Frank and Joe start out trying to track down a stolen car for a friend, and suddenly find themselves embroiled in a jewel theft at the Tower Mansion.  The father of another of their friends is a suspect, and the boys join with their father in the effort to bring the right man to justice.<br />What makes these books work is that, while the plots are not particularly convolute, the books are peopled with many delightful characters and narrative.  Adventures are had, wonderful secrets are divulged, the bad are punished and the good rewarded.  In this day and age of equivocal messages, the clean, straightforward approach to life of Frank and Joe Hardy is like a breath of fresh air.<br />I found the book quite engaging, even after all these years.  I was quite envious of the Hardys, who even had their own motorcycles, and I find flickers of the same feelings even today.  After all, I still don't have a motorcycle.  I wish I could have grown up solving mysteries and adventuring with my sibling and father, but books like 'The Tower Treasure' turned out to be the next think.  I learned a lot from Frank and Joe, and I think those values are still worth promoting.	2003-02-23
1221220:US	53082946	RP09ZY9GQIADH	0743427564	147238526	The Longest Night, Volume 1 (ANGEL)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Happy Birthday Dear Sun God...	I am not much of a fan of short stories as a rule, but I'm also not one to skip a new Angel book because of a personal prejudice.  Right now Angel is getting better writing than Buffy is and this set of short stories is full of both old-timers who made both series a success and newcomers who have come to their own with the Angel startup.<br />The overall story arc that binds this made-for-Christmas volume together isn't really Christmas, but the Winter Solstice that precedes it - a much older sacred day than the one we celebrate now.  This solstice is the longest night of the year and hence offers the most opportunity for badness.  That plus its special nature as a magical day means that this is truly Angel Investigations' busiest day of the year.  And as Cordelia would be quick to point out, their least profitable as well.<br />The book contains 12 stories set from 6:00 PM to 5:00 AM, written by 9 different authors from very old-timer Christopher Golden to complete newbie Pierce Askegren.  With a certain amount of cheating, the editors have actually forced the tales to fit in a 12 hour span, but don't look for perfect timing.  Almost all are written to a consistently high standard, and certain standing themes are developed evenly throughout.  Like Angel's sense of isolation, echoed by Cordelia's internal struggles with her own lot.<br />The one story that bothered me a bit was Nancy Holder's 'Have Gunn, Will Travel.'  In reading it, I kept thinking that she felt quite awkward with Gunn.  Which is the case, since Holder has little direct experience with the uniquely Angel characters.  Other than that, from Askegren's tale of a father's love gone comepletely awry to Christie Golden's finishing tour-de-force these are completely enjoyable.  Since this is marked Volume One, we can look forward to another effort next year.	2003-02-20
1222271:US	53082946	R1RVEMWRZ5QA15	1569311781	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 7: Angel of Chaos	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"And Death hides the angels it makes"	After the 'miracle' save in the previous volume, Alita is provided with a new operator on Tiphares.  This young woman is Lou Collins (a Libra with type AB blood, for what that is worth).  She is a bit idealistic, but her personality seems to mesh better with Alita's than the previous dour citizens she has had to deal with.  Kishiro introduces a cute gimmick - a super-deformed monitor puppet of Alita on the Tiphares side and a way cool Lou Bike for Alita.  This personalizes the relationship, and the reader will fall right into the change.<br />A sudden attack sends Alita to the southeast after Barjack and Desty Nova.  En route, she wanders into another desert fight and rediscovers Fury the cyborg dog and Koyomi from 'Angel of Redemption.  [As an aside, this dates the events of this volume at about 10 years after 'Redemption.'  Alita was a long time in the rebuilding.]  They join up to try to find Kaos, a musician an underground radio operator who only senses radio waves and can read the past of an object.<br />The finally of this volume is a series of turnabouts which leave the reader (as well as Alita and Lou) wondering which side, if any, is the right side.  Certainly, Tiphares, which depends entirely on what can be taken from the surface dwellers, represents what is wrong with any government by an elite.  However, the 'rebels' are not clearly delineated as the 'good guys' either.  We are forced to question out own standards in a world where Alita, a cyborg, is the closest thing to human.  Except, perhaps, Koyomi and Figure Four, but that still has to play out.<br />When this phase of Alita's story started in the previous volume, it seemed less engaging than the previous story arcs.  Much of this has to do with writer Yukito Kishiro's painstaking blending of action story, political statement, and spiritual investigation.  This is a difficult combination to balance, but with 'Angel of Chaos', things are well underway again.  The stage is set for the approaching climax.ax.	2003-02-19
1225437:US	53082946	RMSO6AK92MUAQ	0440237068	327190256	Area 51:  The Truth	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	And Nothing But...	I have been following this series along for some time now, this being the seventh volume.  It is unashamedly an alien invasion, 'the truth is out there,' kind of story that makes no excuses for itself.  As a result, the series has always managed to be a pleasant read even when the plot occasionally degenerates into a bit of paranoid silliness.  After all, that is what makes this genre click.  If a paranoid alien plot story is not what you want, consider yourself warned.<br />For most of the volumes, this one included, the primary secret enemy is an alien race called the Airlia.  They have been on the earth for some 10,000 years, happily manipulating human events to suit their own needs.  In fact, it turns out that there are two groups of Airlia in conflict with each other.  Moreover, as 'The Truth' reveals there are even more fish in the stew than the Airlia and their minions.  It seems that every time this series uncovers an artifact - the Ark, the Grail, Excalibur, there is another alien race hiding underneath of it.<br />In this final volume, the series 'hero,' Mike Turcotte, and his band of cohorts must rush about, cleaning up loose ends, solving mysteries, and saving the Earth.  Rushing about is a bit of an understatement, as Mike starts out on the top of Mount Everest, jumping to safety, and ends on Mars with a final struggle to stop the Airlia (and others) from phoning home and asking for help.  In between are the obligatory stops to Area 51, Stonehenge, and the Gulf of Mexico.  Yes, 'The Truth' does, grudgingly, part with the truth - the last piece of the puzzle.  But this is an anti-climax after all the thundering action that goes before.<br />In something this action oriented, it would be foolish to expect a lot of character development.  In fact, Doherty spends the time to create good two-dimensional characters, and that is much more than many other authors in this genre feel obliged to provide. The only thing that has ever really irritated me about this series is that Doherty's narrative has a habit of jumping around in space and time.  I have a reasonable tolerance for the chaos of a flashback driven narrative, but after seven volumes, this particular plot device wears a bit thin.  Be warned that this series needs to be read in order it is going to make a lot of sense.  Fortunately, it is well written enough to be enjoyable throughout.s series is that Doherty's narrative has a habit of jumping around in space and time.  I have a reasonable tolerance for the chaos of a flashback driven narrative, but after seven volumes, this particular plot device wears a bit thin.  Be warned that this series needs to be read in order it is going to make a lot of sense.  Fortunately, it is well written enough to be enjoyable throughout.	2003-02-17
1226254:US	53082946	R2R3K49LXSQVTW	0671042602	623376167	Buffy: The Watcher's Guide, Vol. 2	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	The Agony and the Ecstasy	If it was the end of Season 2 that made it clear that Joss Whedon's little fancy of a young Slayer and her doughty band of misfits was a force to be contended with, it was the following two seasons that demonstrated the ability of BTVS to baffle its critics and make original dramatic statements completely beyond the range of standard teen fare.  Volume 2 of The Watcher's Guide is a giant concatenation of all that went into the making of those two years.  From props to folks, and every kind of critter in between.<br />This is the time when love blossoms and falls on its face - the spectacular Zander/Willow/Cordelia/Oz breakup playing counterpoint to the winding down of Buffy's relationship with Angel.  Then graduation, college, the Initiative and even more strange relationship vibes.  The appearance of Riley, Anya, and Tara.  The repercussion of these two seasons are still echoing years later, so watching them and learning their backgrounds are required reading for the Buffy fanatic [in my case it's Willow fanatic]<br />Partially, this is a repeat of Volume 1's style with more details, fewer quotes and a whole lot of interviews.  Of course, it is quite a bit thicker.  Some of which is explained by the presence of more glossy photos, but a major component is the writers' compulsive expenditure of energy on lengthy interviews.  This is a good, not a bad.  Moreover, very little is a rehash of the Volume 1 articles.  One of my pet likes was the planning of all the staff interviews around the production of Episode 13 from Season 4, 'The I in Team.'  It introduces all the people who never get on film, and provides a mini-lesson on what goes into the making of an episode.  As I said, if you are going to be a fan you have to read these.  So put down the stakes and rest in your coffins with a good book.	2003-02-16
1228781:US	53082946	R344S9D72149NU	1569311277	241115768	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 6: Angel of Death	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Remaking the Remade	Made of parts rescued from the Scrapyard, Alita was first recreated by Doc Ido.  He awoke her, gave her a new body, and, unsurprisingly, fell in love with the beautiful cyborg whose skills include mastery of a secret fighting discipline - the Panzer Kunst.  Alita first made a living as a hunter killer, then became a Motorball star and finally, in an apocalyptic confrontation, destroys a berserker body put together by the insane ex-Tipharian, Desty Nova.  Alita saves the Scrapyard, is torn into pieces, and is promptly arrested for using a handgun and sentenced to death.<br />Of course, no such thing is going to happen.  At the last moment Alita is contacted by an agent of Tiphares and offered complete restoration - if she will agree to carry out the objectives of Tiphares as one of the 'tuned.'  These are specially enhanced to be super killers (actually, the only 'tuned' is Alita).  In no time at all, we find ourselves with Alita, guarding an atomic train bringing food and raw materials into the Scrapyard for further refinement and trans-shipment to Tiphares.<br />Soon Alita and several new friends are in a struggle to survive bandits and the desert.  There isn't a lot of trust to go around, but there is an army full of bandits.  Somewhere beyond the tough guys Desty Nova is hiding.  He is Tiphares' real target and Alita is determined to make sure Nova keeps his word and restores Doc Ido.  Naturally, everything that can go wrong does.  It will take nothing short of a miracle to keep the 'Angel of Death' on track.  Somehow Alita always manages to persist, to find surprising internal stores of strength.	2003-02-14
1228973:US	53082946	R1UZ2R1HEO8HXT	0934438412	939487543	The Book of Dreams	Books	5	2	3	N	N	"The affair is over.  I am done."	In 1981, two years after the publication of 'The Face,' Jack Vance finally completed the Demon Prince series with 'The Book of Dreams,' the story of Kirth Gersen's confrontation with Howard Alan Treesong, the last of the criminals responsible for the rape and destruction of his home world.  Once again, Gersen roams the Gaian Reach looking for clues to the identity of the most mysterious of men, dragging us along helter-skelter as an intricate trap is built and sprung.<br />In these last two books in the series Vance makes Gersen a much more ingenious and proactive individual, whereas in the earlier books the protagonist depends more on serendipity and occasional dumb luck.  Thus, in 'The Book of Dreams,' Gersen takes the thin clue of a photograph of ten diners, and builds it into an intergalactic contest to expose the identity of Treesong.  In the process, he exposes the Demon Prince's plans to rule the universe, meets the beautiful Alice Wroke, and discovers that taxidermy is a weapon.  All of this is much to the reader's delight.<br />It is sad to have this series come to a final end.  Gersen's entire life has been working to the bring about the end of five poisonous men.  Now, Alice Wroke in hand, the adventurer must satart a new life.  Will he succeed?  Is there ever peace at the end of this kind of mission?  Vance gives us not a hint.  Men of this heroic mold populate much of Vance's science fiction.  In the end each takes his secrets with him to wherever characters go when novels end.<br />Vance never loses an opportunity to make gentle, but sardonic fun of the strange cultures that make up the civilization he has created.  A world of 1,562 different sects, the rapacity of landing field owners, another world full of conservationists as nobility.  These are the things that make the author's stories far more than simple narratives, for it is the little glimpses of the quirks of human behavior that makes these stories as alive and brilliant as they are.  Colored and illuminated by a stream of quotes from galactic gazetteers and the pronouncements of the pompous Unspiek, Baron Bodissey.  Of course, his creations are mirrors of his times, but it is surprising how timely Vance's wit remains years later.and illuminated by a stream of quotes from galactic gazetteers and the pronouncements of the pompous Unspiek, Baron Bodissey.  Of course, his creations are mirrors of his times, but it is surprising how timely Vance's wit remains years later.	2003-02-14
1229797:US	53082946	R1EDOZ3R8JQBAJ	0688174590	81421806	Kisscut: A Novel	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Cry for the Children	Kisscut<br />Cry for the Children<br />Stories of child abuse and pedophia are notoriously difficult to write. The author must find a balance between the need for justice and the horrible fact that there is no such thing as justice for these crimes.  For there is no real undoing, the victims will pay the price for the rest of their lives, always trying to build on the ruins of what should have been their formative years.  There is no punishment for the predator that can bring real release or healing.  Andrew Vachss is a past master at taking the reader into this world, but he is only one voice.  Now Karin Slaughter has ventured into the same bleak territory.<br />The story begins when Jeffrey Tolliver, Chief of Police in the little town of Heartsdale is forced to kill 13-year-old Jenny Deaver to prevent her from shooting Mark Patterson, whom she once loved.  As horrible as this was to contemplate for Tolliver and his ex-wife Sara Linton (Heartsdale's pediatrician and medical examiner) further investigation slowly gives up a twisted nightmare of injury and abuse.  Masked by the evasions of the children, Sara, Jeffrey, and detective Lena Adams feel helpless and confused.  The evidence of a series of crimes gradually surfaces, another child disappears, but the source of the evil remains impossible to decipher.<br />Already badly scarred by the events in 'Blindsighted,' Slaughter's first story, Lena is desperately seeking a way to regain her life.  The case has strange resonances within her, only recently a victim of rape herself.  Sara and Jeffrey are trying to redefine their relationship in the face of newly rediscovered feels.  Gradually these three play out their own themes of love and anger against a malign tapestry of malicious acts of misplaced and bent sensuality.<br />Given the difficulty of getting this kind of novel right, Karin Slaughter does an admirable job of writing.  I think she errs a bit in trying too much to ameliorate the after shock of what, in a very real sense, is a horror story.  I feel that during the unfolding of the novel, she should have been even more brutally honest, and allow the reader little or no escape.  Instead she provides distractions to provide uncomfortable but effective shelter from the worst effect.  On the other hand I congratulate her on having to nerve to end the story as it does too often in real life, leaving the reader in touch with the true nature of the crime.ery real sense, is a horror story.  I feel that during the unfolding of the novel, she should have been even more brutally honest, and allow the reader little or no escape.  Instead she provides distractions to provide uncomfortable but effective shelter from the worst effect.  On the other hand I congratulate her on having to nerve to end the story as it does too often in real life, leaving the reader in touch with the true nature of the crime.	2003-02-13
1230122:US	53082946	RIAW1SPUO62KJ	0312238630	621625468	Anime from Akira to Princess Mononoke: Experiencing Contemporary Japanese Animation	Books	2	25	32	N	N	The Woman Who Ate the Metanarrative	I am not a fan of Post-Modern literary analysis.  I cannot get enthused about any method of viewing artistic creation that has a paradigm or 'method' to its madness, but Post-Modernism is a pet peeve.  By the end of a Post-Modernist study, I know considerably more about the writer's ideas about method than I do about the ostensible subject.  Napier is by no means the worst example of this I have seen, but she still falls for the substitution of terminology for content that is so rife in this school.  And the same willingness to renegotiate narrative paradigms without any allegiance to the source context.<br />The title is somewhat misleading.  I picked up 'Anime from Akira to Princess Mononoke' because the title seems to promise a survey of a range of anime.  Actually, the organization of the book, and the basis for the inclusion of a particular title, is primarily driven by a set of theories about anime.  'From' and 'to' are inapplicable.  The primary sections of the book are essays, one group about 'Body, Metamorphosis, Identity', another about 'Magical Girls and Fantasy Worlds', and a last on 'Anime Confronts History.'  The productions selected for inclusion were chosen by the author's need to make a point.  While Napier does cover some important anime (Evangelion, Mononoke, Akira, Miyazaki Hayao, etc.) there are many others that might contradict her theses that are simply glossed over.<br />In the section on 'Body', there are many cases where she seems completely unaware of focusing on a factor and interpreting it in an American way, divorcing the material from its Japanese root.  In other words, the effect of 2,000 years of Japanese culture is minimized, and perspectives common to many cultures are presented as if they were uniquely Japanese.  Anyone who watches anime knows that the physical is an important part of the art form.  But American film is just as exploitative if not more so.  The shame is that films like 'Akira' and the 'Ghost in the Machine' have much more to them than this, and all that is missed.  Napier is quick to use American definitions of pornography as well, rather than use cultural divergence as a way to gain insight into what the Japanese consider intimate or prurient.<br />Another example of this is in a longer discussion of Evangelion as an apocalyptic film.  Keep in mind that there are two different endings to Evangelion, and that the series ending really is not about apocalypse at all.  The second ending, of course, definitely appears to be an apocalyptic vision.  Napier takes the repetitive presence of some arcane Judeo-Christian symbolism as evidence that the director really intended a Christian 'Revelations' context and pursues that to excess.  In doing so, she completely missed the fact that the film is also an enactment of the Kojiki, an important Japanese creation legend.  My personal belief is that the misleading Christian symbolism is used to create a mysterious atmosphere, but in no way is intended to become the 'meaning' of the film or the series.  By failing to note the Japanese facets of Evangelion, Napier tries to recreate it in an American context.  To me, this is a narrow vision.<br />I find the use of Post-Modern terminology when plain English will do tedious.  I don't think that 'problematize,' defamiliarize,' and 'deassurance' are value added.  At best, they are a short hand, and at worst, they mislead the reader into thinking that they stand for the creator's actual purpose.<br />So read this with the warning that it is not an unbiased attempted to expand upon our knowledge of anime as an art form.  Susan Napier has a several theses that she wishes to propound.  Her choices are based on their ability to promote her opinions.  Had the book been represented as what it actually is, I would have far less to quibble about, although I would still have disagreed with several of her ideas.  Alas, this is decidedly not a study of anime as a Japanese phenomenon, and that is what I was looking for.ooking for.	2003-02-13
1239966:US	53082946	R96YBBIIJSXTW	0934438234	469583389	The Face (The Demon Princes, Book 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beware the Touch of Panak	Vance returned to the Demon Prince series after a 12-year hiatus to write this novel and its sequel, 'The Book of Dreams.'  These demonstrate the mature Vance.  His world building skills are just as fine, but character development has come a great distance Kirth Gersen is not only a full three dimensional character, but he is fully in control of events now.  An 'actor' rather than a 'reactor.'  This carries over to the rest of the persona as well, except for the villain of the piece, Lens Larque, who must remain a menacing shadow to the very end.<br />Larque is a Darsh from Dar Sai, a world that was only civilized because of the value of its raw materials.  Its people are harsh, prone to games of whipping and violent 'diplomacy.'  The sexes don't like each other and the mating customs are half hide-and-seek, and half mayhem.  Gersen puts together a ship-napping in order to trick Larque into exposure, has the tables turned on him, and finally arrives on Dar Sai with a new respect for the fourth of the Demon Princes.<br />Gersen's troubles don't end because he has got to the right planet.  Next, he must find the right man.  Soon you get the idea that the only cooperative people on Dar Sai were not born their.  The Darsh have about the same social skills as miners during the gold rush.  And about the same amount of rapacity as well.  I should also mention that they have the worst food in known space.  Winning only a pyrrhic victory on Dar Sai, Gersen heads for its sister planet Methlen, where the beautiful people live.  Besides the inevitable conclusion, Gersen also learns the sorrows of love (again) and the joys of delivering a good comeuppance.<br />There is a lot of subtle and ironic humor in the story, one of Vance's trademarks as a developed writer.  As such, interest remains high right through the end as the last twists fall into place.  While it was to be only a few more years before the final volume appears it was a very impatient time for the fans.  You modern young whippersnappers should count yourselves lucky.rn young whippersnappers should count yourselves lucky.	2003-02-05
1242077:US	53082946	R1BY44N276Q1T5	1880656728	257873423	Anime Explosion! The What? Why? & Wow! of Japanese Animation	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Accessible, Informative, and Downright Fun.	What most newcomers to Japanese anime (neo-otaku) miss out on is the culture that lies behind the films.  Since anime owes some of its roots to American comics and animation there is a lot of common ground, and it is possible to skate along for some time before the viewer begins to sense that there is a whole subtext going on with which they have no connection. This is the point where a loyal addict starts reading about anime in between watching DVD's of their favorite episodes.<br />Patrick Drazen's 'Anime Explosion' is the perfect book to begin a deep dive into anime.  It begins with history and then follows key themes and genre.  This discussion alone is well worth the price of admission because it reveals where American and Japanese viewpoints diverge.  This helps the viewer to 'get' many things that used to leave one vaguely confused and dissatisfied.  He also dispels a few urban legends about anime in the process.  If you are like me, you got focused on the Christian imagery in Evangelion, but completely failed to realize that the real legendary context is from Japanese myths like Kojiki.  It is all a bit like getting a viewpoint adjustment.<br />The second major part of the book discusses, particular films, directors, composers.  Drazen does not make the mistake of trying to cover everything.  He makes the right decision - that the reader will benefit more from Evangelion, Escaflowne, Ghibli and Shirow in some depth than from a lot of little tidbits that are more appropriately to attempts at encyclopedic coverage.  These are like practice sessions that gradually hone the reader's ability to see the how and why of what is Japanese in anime.  And this helps us vastly increase our ability to enjoy Japanese animation.  Which has come a very long way from its origins.<br />I would consider this a must read book in this subject area.  It helps greatly that Drazen has considerable writing skills and makes learning all this almost effortless.  Even more than a little funny if you don't mind an occasional horrible pun.  Highly recommended.le funny if you don't mind an occasional horrible pun.  Highly recommended.	2003-02-03
1245014:US	53082946	R2FZ1MGPOGUGA4	093443851X	890101643	The Killing Machine (The Demon Princes, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;My goal is to produce a nightmare quality of fright&quot;	Kirth Gersen, having won his conflict with the Star King now turns to the next of the Demon Princes who participated in the destruction of Gersen's entire home world - Kokor Hekkus.  Or rather, happenstance (a series of kidnappings) leads Gersen to a kidnapping plot by which Hekkus is gathering a huge sum of money.  Investigation brings Gersen to Interchange, an institution created solely to facilitate the collection of ransoms and the comfort of the victims - for a fee, of course.  In a way, this is Hekkus' storehouse, not just of his victims while they await redemption but also of the ideas, which drive his dark fantasies.<br />At Interchange, finds an engineer who failed to satisfy Hekkus' need for an imitation giant centipede, and gains some insight into Hekkus's motivation.  By playing on the Demon Prince's list for this mechanical device, Gersen discovers more and more, until, by a series of fortuitous events finds himself flying with the beautiful and mysterious Alusz Iphigenia in search of her home, the mythical world of Thamber.  And on Thamber, Gersen confronts a world out of a romantic's fervid daydream.  Somehow, he must penetrate to the nest of the spider that hides behind the fairy tale in order to quiet one of the voices from his own past.<br />This is the second of the Demon Prince novels, and over all, I think it is probably the weakest.  The story relies heavily on the mechanism of coincidence or 'luck.'  And that weakens its overall impact.  Vance has always had a tendency towards baroque story lines, which, to be honest, is one of the reasons I like him.  The strange cultural architecture of Thamber is a little too fragile and conflicts with what we have been told about Hekkus' character.  Vance moves this complex plot through a volume of only 160 pages, so even the major characters are noticeably two-dimensional.<br />For all my grumbling, 'The Killing Machine' still is a wonderful piece of invention, introducing many of the mechanisms that Vance will go onto use in the volumes to come.  I cannot imagine a reader of vintage science fiction who will not love its countless twists and turns.  Quite successful in its time, it has gone on to become a monument on the science fiction landscape.nce will go onto use in the volumes to come.  I cannot imagine a reader of vintage science fiction who will not love its countless twists and turns.  Quite successful in its time, it has gone on to become a monument on the science fiction landscape.	2003-02-01
1245451:US	53082946	R3B0HH331DS8Z4	156931053X	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 5: Angel of Redemption	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Please Remember Me	With the conclusion of the battle with Jashugan two years elapse in which Alita builds a different life entirely, as a musician at the Bar New Kansas.  Even though she protests to Doc Ido that music and fighting have much in common, it is obvious that this time of peace and growth has been important to Alita.  She has friends, things to do, and a sense of belonging that has eluded her before.  It is a precious time, but one not destined to last.<br />Perhaps this manga should have been titled Angel's Karma.  A moment in Alita's past, her shaming of Zapan that is coming back to haunt her.  The hypersensitive hunter killer is unable to move beyond his hatred of Alita, and in a fit of rage accidentally kills his girlfriend.  Now insane, carrying Sara's head around in a jar, Zapan is heading for Alita.  She joins forces with Sara's father, and the two confront the killer and take him out.  Kind of.<br />Reality, even manga reality, is too harsh to allow such a simple solution.  A berserker body that Doc Ido discovered at the same time he found Alita has fallen into the hands of Desty Nova, a Tipharian like Doc, but a lunatic as well.  Nova has decided to restore the shredded functions of Zapan's brain hand install him in the berserker.  He has equally ugly plans for Ido and Alita finds herself facing a one-cyborg apocalypse.<br />This story is a tragedy with a grain of hope life a mustard seed held in its core.  The fate of everything Alita cares about is at risk, and the beautiful cyborg is called on repeatedly to may incredible sacrifices.  Ending Zapan will be, at best, a Pyrrhic victory, and Alita will gain a flash vision of a height that she may never be able to attain.  And yet, almost within reach, is a promise of things to come.	2003-01-31
1246909:US	53082946	R3JP4F07XFU041	0312864787	343590457	The Paths of the Dead	Books	5	7	14	N	N	On the Pursuit of Narrative Delights	It is a rare moment in all but the experience of the most fortuitous of readers that one comes upon a book were the patient mastery of the vagaries and opportunities of the written language yield prose that has that addition sparkle of self awareness with renders the vessel, if you will, as magical as its contents.  We have experienced other of Brust's deliveries of the narratives of Sir Paarfi of Roundwood, all of which have had the sparkling charm of one who not only loves the story he tells, but loves equally the telling of the story.  However, this first tale in the adventures of Piro, the young Viscount of Adrilankha, surpasses (as a great, mature wine over-reaches the palate of the merest table vintage) all previous efforts.<br />&quot;What!&quot; you say, &quot;All previous efforts!  Pray tells how this could come to pass.&quot;  And so I shall, given time to rest and share what is a story about both the satisfaction of the youthful vigor of the more courageous clans who, lacking of much that engenders excitement in the somewhat humdrum life of the Dragaera in the period most often called, and wisely, the Interregnum.  That time following a mistaken effort at the direst sorcery which inadvertently rendered the capital city of these upstanding people into a sea of chaos, taking with it people, empire, and wizardry, in addition to a demonstrably large part of the surrounding landscape.  Now, with half an elf's life passed in the details of recovery and re-establishment of habits of life most likely to engender continued existence comes an opportunity that, for most young Dragaerans, might best be described as well beyond the mundane concerns of parents and acquaintances, perhaps even as something best described as an 'adventure.'<br />Thus, at the urging of Sethra Lavode, the sorceress whose mysteries can never quite be plumbed, Young Piro, his friends Tazendra, Kytraan, and the most surprising Zivra, whom this same Sethra reveals as Zerika, the last Phoenix heir, set out to come to the Paths of the Dead and aid Zerika in regaining the Orb itself, and thus, her having sufficient courage and will, reinstate the Empire and allow the reign of the Phoenix to continue to its proper conclusion.  Of course, there are others who feel that, whether by reason of past events or present opportunities, this outcome would leave something to be desired.  Thus providing all the tension and conflict necessary to prevent even the most distracted of readers from resting the book any more than might be necessary.<br />And now, this humble writer hopes that by accident or purpose he has communicated what is special about this volume, and will hopefully persist to make those that follow it just as enjoyable.  For it is truly said that the greatest of writing is that which takes the opportunity to smile at itself, and thus beguile the innocent and entertain those whose knowledge is deeper but in no way less desirous of great adventure and wry good humor.  Thus, if I may quote the noblest Zerika, fourth of that name, &quot;It is done.&quot;ir, set out to come to the Paths of the Dead and aid Zerika in regaining the Orb itself, and thus, her having sufficient courage and will, reinstate the Empire and allow the reign of the Phoenix to continue to its proper conclusion.  Of course, there are others who feel that, whether by reason of past events or present opportunities, this outcome would leave something to be desired.  Thus providing all the tension and conflict necessary to prevent even the most distracted of readers from resting the book any more than might be necessary.<br />And now, this humble writer hopes that by accident or purpose he has communicated what is special about this volume, and will hopefully persist to make those that follow it just as enjoyable.  For it is truly said that the greatest of writing is that which takes the opportunity to smile at itself, and thus beguile the innocent and entertain those whose knowledge is deeper but in no way less desirous of great adventure and wry good humor.  Thus, if I may quote the noblest Zerika, fourth of that name, &quot;It is done.&quot;	2003-01-30
1248623:US	53082946	R1LHJ3AFH4M2JX	1569310823	173371143	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 4: Angel of Victory	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"To the man become God"	This is the fourth Alita collection, although it is officially the last of part three of the series.  As such, it marks the culmination of Alita's identity quest into the world the motorball.  What Alita has discovered is that use of her special cyborg battle training skills can trigger sudden flashbacks to the days before Doc Ido reassembled her as Alita.  These come as peak experiences when the doughty fighter must push her body to withstand what no biological body could.<br />We get to see to of these battles.  The first Alita uses to test both herself and the cyborgs with whom she is considering teaming.  This is an opportunity for both melee battles and some fine humorous moments when things do not quite happen as planned.  The second struggle is the final confrontation with Jashugan.  This we know will end up in a one-on-one confrontation between titans.  The reader is entitled to, and gets, all the action art and surprises of which Yukito Kushiro is capable.  Who wins isn't important at the transcendent moment, only that both have used up all that they had.<br />I'm probably going to go on and on about the art for this series until I run out of manga to review.  Yukita Kishiro has the kind of graphic style that makes the frames magnetic.  The story, the diversity of characters and the introspective twists are an important part of this manga, and keep it from ever being a simpleminded hack and disassemble story.  Something deeper is going on, and we see it evolve one small piece at a time.	2003-01-29
1250878:US	53082946	RPWQL3R7XUFMM	1569717419	180110244	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 11. Beasts	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A Grave's Worth of Memories.	It is a rare thing for me to actually read a manga series in the correct order.  This much something to do with the erratic way I come upon them.  'Blade of the Immortal' is typical of what happens.  I started in the middle, read books at the ends, and finally finished up in the middle again.  This is the first time (outside of volume 1) that I have read one of these stories knowing everything that went before.  Typically of me, this is one of those issues where that is hardly an advantage.<br />I have a bit of a love-hate relationship with the level of violence in Samura's stories.  Moderation is rare in these stories, and there is a limit to the number of body parts I can accept as plot devices.  Don't misunderstand me, I like this series a lot, but sometimes it gets out of control.  This is especially true of violence against women.  Of which there is more than is needed to establish the villainy of the villains.  At a certain point it stops being a plot device and becomes a major theme, but Hiroaki Samura doesn't seem to be going anywhere with it.<br />'Beasts' is a story that stands pretty much on its own.  Its main characters are Hyakurin and Shinriji, two of the remaining members of the Mugai-Ryu sword school that is hunting the same Anotsu Kagehisa who is the object or Rin's quest for revenge.  Both are resting from their last conflict when, suddenly, members of Kagehisa's Itto-Ryo show up in a surprise attack.  They make a valiant defence, but Hyakurin is captured, bundled off to a secret location and tortured to find out what she knows about the people for whom she is working.<br />And tortured, and tortured, and tortured.  This is a nightmare that successfully proves Hyakurin's determination, but is otherwise a test of what the reader can stomach.  As relief to the inventive ways to cause pain, we see many flashbacks about Hyakurin's history.  This part is indeed interesting, and I would have relished more history and less splatter.  So this manga has a good story, good art, but is a test of intestinal fortitude.  Be warned.  If you like nails coated in hot pepper you won't have much of a problem.  If you have a touchy stomach like me be prepared to take it carefully.ood story, good art, but is a test of intestinal fortitude.  Be warned.  If you like nails coated in hot pepper you won't have much of a problem.  If you have a touchy stomach like me be prepared to take it carefully.	2003-01-27
1251418:US	53082946	R3OHL6R10JF70V	0934438528	17242442	The Palace of Love (The Demon Princes, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	"Tim R. Mortiss, He's a Loving Friend"	The Palace of Love<br />A Guest of the Margrave<br />Kirth Gerson's quest for revenge against the five Demon Princes who destroyed his home and family has one unfortunate side effect.  It makes him more than a little unlucky in love.  When Alusz Iphigenia finds herself dragged to Sarkovy, the poisoner's planet, to watch a man die for selling poisons to Viole Falushe at the wrong price she draws the line and Gerson finds himself alone one again.  Unsurprisingly, Gerson is almost relieved at the loss.<br />For Gerson, the thin clues discovered on Sarkovy will eventually lead him back to Earth where he must struggle to build the snare that will trap the elusive Falushe.  Eventually, the trail will lead him to Navarth, a poet of unsteady demeanor and writing skills, the guardian of the young woman called Zan Zu from Eridu.  Whoever Zan Zu really is, she is the double of Jheral Tinzy, the woman whose cavalier treatment launched young Vogel Filschner, later known as Viole Falushe, on the life of a dire criminal mastermind.  Gerson uses Zan Zu and Navarth as the keys that will gain him access to the killer.  Even if it means a trip to the fatal delights of the infamous Palace of Love.<br />If 'The Killing Machine' was a slight letdown, 'The Palace of Love' finds Vance back in complete control of his writing powers.  The book is both a facile satire of the foibles of an overly attenuated civilization and a hard nosed adventure of the fight to the death between a vicious, if overly romantic, sadist and one of his earliest victims.  Irony is the rule of the day as many characters get their just and embarrassing deserts.  For a reader jaded by the modern tendency to the grim and noir, Vance's use of almost comic justice is like a breath of fresh air.<br />Vance creates his worlds in order to have full use of the people on them.  Sarkovy, with its wheeled god, the archaism of Earth, and the countless quirks of the worlds of the Oikumene and beyond the Pale come to life in the footnotes and quotes with which Vance peppers his stories.  You will find yourself enamored of both Vance's story-telling skills and his capabilities as a somewhat cynical sociologist.  These are stories designed to fire the imagination, to stay in the mind after they are put to rest.ootnotes and quotes with which Vance peppers his stories.  You will find yourself enamored of both Vance's story-telling skills and his capabilities as a somewhat cynical sociologist.  These are stories designed to fire the imagination, to stay in the mind after they are put to rest.	2003-01-27
1253577:US	53082946	R2OMA6A9XUXVGZ	1569715033	680703456	Lone Wolf and Cub 2: The Gateless Barrier	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	"If you meet the Buddha, kill the Buddha."	I have been reluctant to undertake the reviewing of this series for two reasons.  For one thing, there are some 24 volumes, which mean a considerable commitment in reading and writing.  Second, one of my favorite reviewers is also reading through the series, and it is no small effort to find ways to bring further insights to the reader.<br />Because I am also reading the Blade of the Immortal series, there is a natural tendency to compare these to manga, which are both similar, and quite different.  Kazuo Koike is perhaps the more inventive writer.  Since thus far the Lone Wolf series lacks the grand theme of revenge that knits Hiroaki Samura's work together, the Lone Wolf plots are limited to the individual stories.  This is not a flaw at all, just an explanation of one of the key differences.  Koike is a master of minimalist story telling, ironic devices, and plots that take surprising turns when least expected.<br />Both series have more than their fair share of violence, although Blade of the Immortal stands out for its depictions of fighting and dismemberment.  Lone Wolf's violence is sudden and swift - less choreographed.  Goseki Kojima, the artist also has a strong sense of the sweep and motion of a scene, while Samura's clean, balanced graphics produce a lighter, less congested style.  Of course, the fact that Lone Wolf's page size is half that of Blade of the Immortal makes direct comparison more difficult.<br />There are several changes between the stories of volume one of this series and this second volume.  For one thing, the tales are twice as long, allowing for better building of tension and plot, as well as more depictions of life in the world of Edo-period Japan.  In addition, Daigoro, Lone Wolf's son (the cub of the series title) gets much better parts than he does in the first volume.  He is no longer just a plot device, but a living character.  Finally, there is an inner sense of the 'romance' and tragedy of a ronin seeking a life of honor.<br />That last two stories, 'The Gateless Barrier,' and 'Winter Flower' are perfect examples of the breadth of Koike's talent.  Both are stories of murders that must be done, but one is a cautionary Buddhist tale, and the other is a finely honed recreation of the classic forms of Japanese tragic drama.  Completely different from each other they are two strong arguments for pursuing this series.hat last two stories, 'The Gateless Barrier,' and 'Winter Flower' are perfect examples of the breadth of Koike's talent.  Both are stories of murders that must be done, but one is a cautionary Buddhist tale, and the other is a finely honed recreation of the classic forms of Japanese tragic drama.  Completely different from each other they are two strong arguments for pursuing this series.	2003-01-25
1255582:US	53082946	R2J20YJFNTIREW	0671024337	330666577	Buffy, the Vampire Slayer : the Watcher's Guide	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Hanging out in the Library	For several years now, I have avoided buying this Watcher's Guide and its companion volume for seasons three and four.  I'm not quite sure why - perhaps it was a last ditch effort to avoid the admission that I am an unregenerate Willow-holic.  \\"After all,\\" thinks me, \\"I have the DVD's, so who needs another reprise of the episodes?\\"<br />Surprisingly enough, the descriptions of the episodes take only 40 pages out of 298 dedicated completely to the ground Buffy walks on and the air that Willow breathes.  And everything else seasons one and twoish.  There's intro to Buffy 101, a guide to living in Sunnydale, character, and monster guides, and a section on being in love on the Hellmouth.<br />The section I like best is a series of articles and reviews on the cast, creative staff and crew.  Until I saw the extras on the DVD's I somehow believed that Joss Whedon waved a magic wand and a new episode popped fully formed from his forehead.  It's quite a revelation to understand the colossal effort it takes to create each Buffy episode.  From research and writing to make-up and stunts, every one has to be at their peak during a rushed and grueling shooting schedule.<br />Chock full of enough facts and quotes, this is the book to make you into a walking Buffy-pedia.  The perfect tool to impress your friends and dash the hopes of your competition.  Even if you feel you have been deserted for a werewolf.  This is a fun book, put together by Christopher Golden and Nancy Holder, the reigning king and queen of Buffy literature.  A tiny but slapdash, but full of enthusiasm for the surprising success of a show about people who have all the issues of growing up absurd AND have to deal with a continuous flow of the creepies.	2003-01-23
1257349:US	53082946	R1P0GL9D4UVD28	1569310920	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 3: Killing Angel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Death's Dark Angel	In this, the third volume in the series, Alita has left Doc Ido's care in the emotional backlash from the death of Hugo.  Doc has begun a quest to find the beautiful cyborg that has distracted him completely from his regular business.  As a result the series opens with Doc wandering the streets, only finding that Alita has become a motorball player.  This is a vicious competitive game, reminiscent of Rollerball, which at first seems completely unlike the Alita of 'Tears of an Angel.'<br />At first, as we read about Alita's determined climb through the ranks, we believe that this change is an expression of Alita's anger and pain over the death of her friend.  But gradually it becomes clear that this is a quest for self.  When Alita is using the secrets of 'panzer kunst,' the cyborg battle art, there are moments when she almost remembers her true identity.  And there is no shortage of violent, beautifully choreographed battle scenes as Alita chased the elusive motorball.<br />Her need for battles that stretch her to the fullest will eventually drive her to challenge the undisputed best of the motorballers, Jashugan.  Jashugan is hardly a villain, but a disciplined use of 'chi.'  His willingness to treat Alita seriously foils Doc Ido's plans to use Jashugan bring Alita to what he believes are her 'senses.'  Instead she becomes even more embroiled in the excitement of the game not that conquering Jashugan has become a goal.<br />On the surface, this manga would appear to be one of the 'beautiful but deadly female superhero' genre.  But Yukito Kishiro persists in surprising us with new facets of Alita's personality, a delightful supporting cast, and antagonists of the stature of Jashugan.  One can sense that bigger issues are in play and that Alita's future still contains many unexpected twists.<br />Once again I am amazed at the quality of the art in Kushiro's efforts.  Graphically attractive, compositionally strong, and a whole host of other superlatives are merely descriptive.  For three volumes I've been treated to a unique artistic style that sets this above many manga that, inexplicably, enjoy more popularity.  If you don't believe me, see for yourself.criptive.  For three volumes I've been treated to a unique artistic style that sets this above many manga that, inexplicably, enjoy more popularity.  If you don't believe me, see for yourself.	2003-01-22
1261500:US	53082946	R2S3BKRV4EYFS	156971469X	540929794	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 6: Dark Shadows	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	We Are All Outcasts	Having managed to read every other volume in this series except 'Dark Shadows' I can state as a fact that this is one of the most important volumes in this series about Rin, Manji, and the hunt for the Itto-Ryu who killed Rin's parents.  It takes the thematic material introduced earlier and starts the process of making a series of story arcs into a narrative whole.<br />For the first time we discover that there are others hunting Anotsu Kagehisa and his ruffian band of super killers.  Moreover, there are others just as anxious to court what they perceive is Anotsu's rising power.  Some of Anotsu's motivations are clarified, and we meet Magatsu Taito in new circumstances.  Magatsu will come to play an important later in the series.<br />The Mugai-Ryu are introduced as opposition to the Itto-Ryu.  Led by Hyakurin, a woman assassin, they are little different from the 'bad guys.'  In fact, they may very well be worse.  However, they are anxious to recruit Manji, taking advantage of his fighting skill and his commitment to Rin's quest.<br />Rin, on the other hand, begins to realize that she is much more than a vengeful sword fighter, and much less as well. She came from a gentler Samurai tradition than the rough fighters that are now part of her life.  Even Manji, who shares at least some basic understanding of duty and honor is a far cry from the world of her father.  But Anotsu's followers and their opponents are something else entirely, and the young woman begins to question her own actions and rue the strength she lacks.<br />Hiroaki Samura has an easy talent for moving from extreme violence to the simply grace of a woman's play with the man she loves.  And back again.  It is as if to remind us that the killing that moves the story forward is only an agency, not the purpose of the story.  There is a quirky justice to what befalls many of the characters in the stories to come, and the reader should not assume that blood is the only possible resolution.	2003-01-19
1264955:US	53082946	R174IK83CHBMBJ	1569310491	386722743	Battle Angel Alita,  Vol. 2: Tears of an Angel (Viz Graphic Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	"Tomorrow is useless to a dead man"	As is true of almost any tale of cyborgs the question of the difference between mechanical consciousness and mechanized humanity is one of the driving forces behind the Battle Angel Alita series.  At what point does a combination or brain, spinal column and hardware gain or lose its human nature.  In this second stanza in the series, Alita, who was brought back to life in the first volume, re-finds her capacity for love when she meets Hugo, a human boy.  Hugo's goal is to make his way from the traps of the Scrapheap to the upper city of Tiphares.<br />Hugo and Alita seem made for each other, despite the gulf of artificiality that separates them.  But Hugo, despite being a complete human is willing to steal the spines out of their original possessors if it brings him closer to the day he can go to Tiphares.  This gruesome sideline, and the ghouls he works for gradually eat away at his own humanity until it is clear that he and Alita are really going in opposite directions.  Alita will discover her spirit as Hugo gradually loses his soul.<br />In the meantime, we get a close introduction to the grim nature of life below the city in the sky.  Hunter Killers take heads for bounty, people feed on scraps while anything good is sent to Tiphares, and black market ops farm the neighbors for profit.  For such as Hugo and Alita there is really no escape, only a dark struggle that can only lead to insanity and death if the dreamer refuses to waken.<br />Balancing what is almost a post-apocalyptic vision, is Yukito Kishiro's wonderful artwork.  He has the same eye for detail that made 'Ghost in the Shell' such a compelling spectacle.  The cover art made me wish, for the second time that this series had made it as a feature film or OAV series.  If you have been feeling drawn deeper into the world of manga, Alita is a great introduction to Japanese science fiction.	2003-01-16
1265953:US	53082946	R3RM3B0T1OD3C5	0451459008	139111417	Silk	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A Web of Sleepless Dreams	Every once in a while I find a book waiting to be read, and I am not even sure how it got there.  While I am not sure why or when I purchased 'Silk', I am very glad I did.  Pickings have been slim for good modern horror lately, and this book fills the bill in very satisfying fashion.  Caitlin Kiernan chooses an unusual setting and cast to tell a story that is part horror and part social history and in doing so makes the point that it is not always the creatures with claws and fangs that are the real villains of horror stories.  Sometimes the real monsters never appear on the stage at all.<br />The players in this story are drawn from urban America's children of a lesser God.  The goths, punk, skinheads and other border subcultures that the mainstream world isn't quite comfortable with, but which fascinate nonetheless.  This is the story of Spyder Baxter - goth, storeowner, and lesbian whose sanity is always in doubt, and who is haunted by memories of a traumatic and fatal childhood.  It is also the story of Daria Parker - lead singer/writer in the punk band Stiff Kitten, a motley crew who could almost see success if they could just keep it together.<br />Each of these women and their friends mirror completely the cultures they live in.  Even if 'Silk' were not also a horror story, it would be a brilliant talk of life in a subculture, similar in style to 'North Coast Gothic,' which never set out to be a horror story.  The participants seem hell bent on snatching chaos from the jaws of rationality, living in stressed out lives of their own creation, always acting in a melodrama.  But something much darker lives below, haunting the basement of Spyder's cellar.  Memories waiting to be brought to life again.<br />Spiders haunt this story, black widows and brown recluses hiding just out of sight, hunter/killers waiting for the right magic spell to wake them up.  And when the spell is done these eight-legged players perform almost invisibly, in dreams and on the edge of perception.  But they take their toll, and people die.  In the city of Birmingham, sleepless nights become the only defense.<br />This is certainly one of the best first horror novels I have read in a while, and the writer has gone on to accumulate kudos and awards.  The story develops slowly, but inexorably, but the pace is always sufficient to hold the readers interest.  If you are looking for something a bit off the beaten track and easy to read, then add 'Silk' to your list.rception.  But they take their toll, and people die.  In the city of Birmingham, sleepless nights become the only defense.<br />This is certainly one of the best first horror novels I have read in a while, and the writer has gone on to accumulate kudos and awards.  The story develops slowly, but inexorably, but the pace is always sufficient to hold the readers interest.  If you are looking for something a bit off the beaten track and easy to read, then add 'Silk' to your list.	2003-01-15
1268892:US	53082946	R28AGT6YNJ57CM	0446611204	794065394	The Dreamthief's Daughter: A Tale of the Albino	Books	3	18	21	N	N	A Plague of Heroes	I have been reading Michael Moorcock's stories since the 1960's.  So, I have been through almost every incarnation of the Eternal Champion, as well as many efforts in other directions.  I have admired Moorcock not just for his writing abilities, but also for the support and aid that he has given to many other writers.  I've never counted money spent on one of his books as wasted, and was looking forward to my first visit with Moorcock in a long time.  This time, however, I am lest satisfied with what was delivered.  I'm afraid the Eternal Champion has been stretched a bit too thin.<br />Ostensibly the story is about Ulric von Bek (the last count of Bek), or it's about Elric (the last king of Melnibone) and, maybe, Oona (the last of Elric's line).  All of these are albinos, hence the book's subtitle.  The first third of the book tells of Ulric and his conflict with the Nazis over a mystic black sword, and the Holy Grail that was once entrusted to his family.  The conflict enlarges, and Ulric becomes the means by which Elric can be released from a comatose state.  Unfortunately, we are subjected to a host of ruminations and explanations from Ulric's viewpoint.  Ulric's lack of narrative skill doesn't interfere in the least with his ability to go on and on pedantically about everything from politics to scenery.  But the early story frequently verges on the tedious.<br />Elric is a moderately better storyteller, but the simple truth is that the overall narration is wooden, as if Moorcock was badly out of practice or has some preaching to do.  The plot turns on the albinos' efforts to prevent Ulric's cousin Gaynor from copping all the swords and the Grail, and thus bringing the universe to a sudden and fatal halt.  If this sounds a bit too much like many other Moorcock stories, the truth is that there is little to clearly differentiate this tale from those that have gone before other than a lot of material on Nazi superstition and an unusually strong female protagonist.<br />The book is neither a success nor a failure.  I thing some heavy editing could have mat it a much better story.  It is, however, a poor introduction for those readers who have never had a chance to make Elric's acquaintance in the old days when the Albino destroyed his home and set out to wander the younger kingdoms.  My recommendation is to go back and read the original Elric and Corum stories and let \\"The Dreamthief's Daughter\\" rest for now, hopefully to be rescued by the promised sequel.br />The book is neither a success nor a failure.  I thing some heavy editing could have mat it a much better story.  It is, however, a poor introduction for those readers who have never had a chance to make Elric's acquaintance in the old days when the Albino destroyed his home and set out to wander the younger kingdoms.  My recommendation is to go back and read the original Elric and Corum stories and let \\"The Dreamthief's Daughter\\" rest for now, hopefully to be rescued by the promised sequel.	2003-01-13
1272871:US	53082946	R3F9C3BWD62KNX	1880656647	5346054	The Anime Encyclopedia: A Guide to Japanese Animation since 1917	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	An Indomitable Effort	The first thought that runs through the mind of a potential otaku faced with the wealth of Anime films that are available is, frankly, &quot;Where do I start.&quot;  It doesn't take a great deal of time to sniff out the Evangelions and Princess Mononokes, but beyond the great successes are many lesser lights that all promise pleasure and entertainment if one only knew which they were.  Of course, part of the challenge is that coming to understand anime and manga requires reaching some level of understanding of the Japanese culture that underlies them.  However, the simple truth is that, lacking a guide, the effort is always in danger of becoming fruitless.<br />'The Anime Encyclopedia' is the answer to need.  While it really isn't encyclopedic, it provides summaries, data, and even some analysis of over 2,000 anime films.  The authors confess that there are probably another 2,000 films that could have been included, and a complete failure to touch on interactive (game) animation.  Nevertheless, 2,000 titles covering the period from 1917 to 2001 is a lot.  While the writers are rarely excessively judgmental, there is enough information to identify both films of interest and films to be avoided.<br />Occasionally, the reader finds a lengthy discussion, but most of the descriptions are 100 to 200 words.  One will find dates, formats, key translations, creative staff, and length listed.  Some indication of the appropriate audience where needed, and indication of whether English productions are available.  In short, enough to navigate one's way to the winded path of an otaku's apprenticeship.  The writers have a dry, witty style that makes this more than a simple catalog, but far less than a treatise.  The book does exactly what it promises to do, competently and clearly.  Lacking a command of Japanese, this is the best resource available for US viewers.	2003-01-10
1274700:US	53082946	R2D137AIOWTLXR	9997225694	811555624	Star King (Demon Princes)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	First Among Equals	When 'The Star King' waltzed away with the Hugo Award in 1963, John Holbrook Vance (aka Ellery Queen) was already a noted science fiction author.  However, this first in the Demon Prince series was his first award.  And for me and many others, their first exposure great science fiction.  Vance has always been a world creator, and in this series he let his imagination run uncheck, creating world's, galactic topologies, entire cultures and countless creatures to go with them.  This was a whole order more amazing than Flash Gordon and Superman, and in short order, I was a sci-fi junkie of the first order.<br />Forty years later, this first tale of Kirth Gerson and his quest for revenge on the five slavers that destroyed his people is still just as readable.  Gerson's quest has led him to Smade's Tavern out in The Beyond.  Gerson witnesses a killing that leaves him with the coordinates of an unclaimed world that is so beautiful that Attel Malagate (The Woe) is determined to have it.  In a series of adventures and accidents, Gerson manages to engineer a confrontation with Malagate's henchmen and finally the Star King himself.  I don't want to give away much of the plot because it's charm is in the reading, but expect many twists and turns as threads unexpectedly come together.<br />Gerson is a complex character.  Formed by his grandfather's compulsive need for revenge, the hunter/killer has never questioned his reason for being.  Now as the possibility for attaining one of his goals draws near, Gerson begins to realize that there may be life after vengeance.  He is not completely comfortable with his own humanity, and this will increase in importance as the series develops.  In any case, Gerson is not a pure hero.  In some ways, he is as evil as those he hunts.  Yet his strong, no nonsense approach to the hunt and a self-consistent set of ethics makes him an extremely attractive main character<br />Vance isn't happy to provide the reader with just a compelling plot and set of good characters.  He likes to fill in all the details of the universe in which his story unfolds.  Each chapter has its set of quotes, short essays, planetology reports and other tidbits that gradually build up the context of the books until it has a life of its own.  In these jaded times we would no doubt find some of his ideas a bit nave, but most are still every bit as good a literary device as they were forty years ago.<br />Vance is one of the few writers who does not bring out a sequel because it is a year later.  Instead he waits until the story is ready, making a series that is consistently delightful.  This is a piece of science fiction history as well as a pure pleasure to ingest.  If you like hard science fiction so finely grained that it reads like fantasy 'The Star King' is something you will come to relish and reread.et of good characters.  He likes to fill in all the details of the universe in which his story unfolds.  Each chapter has its set of quotes, short essays, planetology reports and other tidbits that gradually build up the context of the books until it has a life of its own.  In these jaded times we would no doubt find some of his ideas a bit nave, but most are still every bit as good a literary device as they were forty years ago.  <br />Vance is one of the few writers who does not bring out a sequel because it is a year later.  Instead he waits until the story is ready, making a series that is consistently delightful.  This is a piece of science fiction history as well as a pure pleasure to ingest.  If you like hard science fiction so finely grained that it reads like fantasy 'The Star King' is something you will come to relish and reread.	2003-01-09
1275944:US	53082946	R38B5W5LY8EZ8R	1569310033	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 1: Rusty Angel	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Awakening and Compassion	There are several manga series that enjoy popularity in the US, but have never completely broken through to best-seller status here.  We seem to be too much influenced by the availability of a corresponding anime film or series.  With manga like 'Battle Angel Alita,' this is a particular shame since I think the comic would make a perfect transition to automation.  Yukito Kishiro's art is graphic and finely detailed, there is a tremendous amount of action, with plots that are full of unique twists.<br />The story opens with Ido Daisake, part time hunter-warrior, part time humble repairman, pawing through piles of technological super junk for robot parts.  Unexpectedly, he finds the head and torso of an attractive cyborg and sets out to rebuild her.  After some work collecting what he needs, Alita (named for his dead cat) is up, about, and in trouble.  Alita, it turns out, has surprising battle skills, and sets out to become a hunter-warrior herself.  The second half of the manga tells the story of Alita's first major conflict - with Makaku, another cyborg who is all head and tail (except when he is 'borrowing' what parts he pleases).<br />All of this takes place in the ground level (and sewer) of a Bladerunner-esque under-city called the Scrap Yard.  It is the industrial plant and trash can for Tiphares, the upscale city in the clouds where jury-built cyborgs never get to go.  Most residents are at least partly artificial and many are like Alita, a brain and central nervous system inside a mechanical contrivance.  Despite all this dehumanization, Alita manages to be more than a machine operator.  Somehow, her ethics and humanity have survived the fall to make this series much more than a choreographed hack and disassemble story.  This is a manga with exceptional artistic and narrative values.	2003-01-08
1279631:US	53082946	R2QFJ90XKVK6AV	B000031EG7	358424115	Ninja Resurrection	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Unpleasant Come Back	Early 17th Century Japan was a particularly grim period.  It is marked by the rise of the Tokugawa Shogunate, several abortive efforts to open Japan up to the world and a bloody rebellion by the small Christian minority that led to the exclusion of foreigners from Japan for over 200 years.  The Christian rebellion and its suppression at Shimbara was a struggle with few heroes and all too many villains on both sides.  'Ninja Resurrection' tells a part of the story of those events, combining both history and legend in its telling.<br />Jubei Yagyu, a historical figure, was sword instructor to the Tokugowa regime, as well as in regular use as a spy and assassin.  Therefore, it is no surprise that Jubei was sent to invade the Christian stronghold at Shimbara to weaken the fortification and, if possible, assassinate the leaders of the rebellion.  Tokisada Shiro Amakusa, whose followers thought he was the new Christ, was killed, and the rebellion collapsed.  The result was a massacre - 37,000 Christians dead at the cost of less than 2,000 samurai.<br />The prophecy that declared Shiro to be the returned Christ also -redicts that, if frustrated, he will return as Satan.  The first part of this DVD tells about Shimbara, and sets the scene for the second part, the incarnation of Satan.  Here we have a little pastiche about Yagyu clan home life followed by a demonic sex scene and the rebirth from a woman's corpse of the slain Shiro.  Somehow, Shiro's reanimation includes the return of 4 of Japan's most legendary swordmen as demons.<br />And now comes this DVD's greatest flaw.  There is no resolution or conclusion, just an abrupt end.  Nor is there any sign of an anime follow up, although there have been several other films (not anime) that deal with Jubei's further adventures.  Being left cold at a point that feels like the middle of the plot definite has a chilling effect on one's enjoyment.  This is a shame, because the artwork and acting in these two episodes really is excellent, and a continuation would certainly have been successful.  Beware, the film contains some very adult scenes and an amazing amount of bloody violence.ellent, and a continuation would certainly have been successful.  Beware, the film contains some very adult scenes and an amazing amount of bloody violence.	2003-01-06
1280364:US	53082946	R2A9XIFN1A7V7P	0441661564	858913791	The Phoenix And Mirror	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Through the Looking Glass	This is one of those rare small volumes, which, over time, have become cult classics.  Avram Davidson never enjoyed the great popularity of some of his peers, but it should be noted that he enjoys much popularity among his peers.  In other words, he is very much a writer's writer.  By which I mean that his writing creates even more possibilities than it fulfills.<br />This book develops the medieval myth that Vergil was not simply a great poet, but a master mage living in the time of Augustus Caesar.  Davidson's Vergil has the kind of inquisitive mind that has a knack for leading him into trouble.  So, it is no surprise that, when he is rescued from being hunted by manticores, his rescuer, Cornelia of Carsus, promptly traps him into agreeing to create a speculum majorum - a mirror made entirely of the purest materials that, on its first use, will reveal whatever the user wishes it to see.  Unfortunately, such mirrors are almost impossible to make, requiring raw materials that will send Vergil on a magical quest through the Roman Empire.  Eventually the task will lead the mage to Phoenixes, Cyclops, things horrible and beautiful, and finally, to love.<br />What makes this small novel more than just a quaint, entertaining story is the depth of understanding Davidson has of this imaginary world.  Not the world of the Roman Empire itself, but the world of the Roman Empire as it was imagined by medieval Europeans.  Odd but useful creatures, distant lands with strange names, alchemists and astrologers all abound between these covers.  There is no page upon which something arcane and unique is not revealed.  In addition, the description of the making of the mirror is precise and accurate for the imaginary world of Hermes Trismegistis and the great works of alchemy.<br />The book is as much a resource for anyone interested in setting a fantasy in this world of the imaginary empire, as it is a jewel-like entertainment in which knowledge is an important part of the action.  It is sad to see it always wobbling on the edges of being gone forever as publishers try more and more to substitute adrenalin for writing skills.  Hopefully, you will find a copy and love it, and then be led to investigate Davidson's other works.  Of such are pleasant hours made.t is sad to see it always wobbling on the edges of being gone forever as publishers try more and more to substitute adrenalin for writing skills.  Hopefully, you will find a copy and love it, and then be led to investigate Davidson's other works.  Of such are pleasant hours made.	2003-01-05
1287208:US	53082946	R1JFT4PPI9H7LX	044175712X	903247310	The Search of Mavin Manyshaped	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Under Bartelmy's Ban	It takes a special kind of author to manage the writing of a nine volume series.  And an even rarer author who can write a long series that will stand up to intensive reading.  Sheri Tepper is once such author that has the knack.  When the volumes of the Lands of the True Game first came out Tepper was a little known writer, breaking into the world of science fiction and fantasy.  By the writing of this volume, the last in the series, Tepper was an established writer with a loyal audience.<br />It is hard to point to any one volume, character or idea and say that this is what made the work so successful.  And perhaps that is part of Tepper's secret, her ability to shift point of view and narrator, introduce new and spectacular characters, and add layer upon layer to a complex world.  Through her three protagonists, Peter, Jinian and Mavin we explore a world where both magic, science, ecology and witchcraft happily blend together without a single hitch.<br />This is Mavin's last tale, finally come to fulfill her promise to Himaggery and meet him after 20 years in the city of Pfarb Durim.  Quite a lot has gone into get there again, and Mavin is stunned to find that Himaggery is not to be found.  That eight years earlier the wizard set out and a quest and was eaten up by it.  Windlow the Seer knows that his friend is not dead, but all efforts to find him have failed.  Now Himaggery's quest must become Mavin's quest as she slowly retraces his steps to uncover betrayal and mystery in a story full of old friends and new enemies.<br />This is Mavin's greatest test.  Not because it takes great courage or incredible wits to survive, but because Mavin find's herself facing her real issues as a woman and a shifter.  Finding Himaggery and returning the wizard to himself turn out to be to separate and difficult thinks.  Maven's need for freedom and independent conflict with her commitment, and she begins to find that responsibility is a lump thing about which one must always make difficult choices.  Finding that she has managed to conceive Himaggery's child introduces another layer of complication, and forces her to discover that Mavin need not shift to be Mavin.<br />But who Mavin really is and how she will save both Himaggery and herself is the crux of the book.  Even more so than it is a tricksy tale of harpies and shadows.  Mavin's trilogy does much to open of the Tepper's world to the reader and lay the groundwork for the other stories in the series.  It is a world that will remain on my shelves forever, waiting for the next time I need to follow the Eesties road.e difficult choices.  Finding that she has managed to conceive Himaggery's child introduces another layer of complication, and forces her to discover that Mavin need not shift to be Mavin.<br />But who Mavin really is and how she will save both Himaggery and herself is the crux of the book.  Even more so than it is a tricksy tale of harpies and shadows.  Mavin's trilogy does much to open of the Tepper's world to the reader and lay the groundwork for the other stories in the series.  It is a world that will remain on my shelves forever, waiting for the next time I need to follow the Eesties road.	2002-12-31
1288766:US	53082946	R2YDAH2TWT38O5	0441240925	754098973	The Flight of Mavin Manyshaped (Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Climbing the Chasm	On the far side of Lom, across the sea lies a land that adapted differently to the troubles than did the lands of the True Game.  Here humans, fleeing the uprising of the native creatures descended into a great chasm that split the continent.  Gigantic plants lived in the chasms ecosystem, and the people built cities suspended from the great roots, connected by bridges and stairs.  The cities are peopled by castes, Bridgers at the top, followed by Fishers, Harvesters and all the other folk that make the cities work.  And where there are cities of people there are politics and power games.  Beedie, a Bridger, finds herself in conflict with another Bridger clan - the Banders.  The Banders play for big stakes and will stop at nothing to control the council, even murder.<br />Into this comes Mavin Manyshaped, flown across the sea on a quest for Handbright, her lost sister.  When Maven left Danderbat Keep, she convinced her sister to flee as well.  But, once free, Handbright took the shape of a bird and never really stopped flying. Now Mavin has found her a continent away.  Gone mad, adopted by the Chasm folk as a messenger from the Boundless, and pregnant by a Birder priest who should have known better.  Mavin enlists Beedie's help in keeping Handbright from further harm.  Of course, Mavin is enlisted as well.  This time to stop the Banders and find out what is killing the great roots.  For the first time in a great while, humans descend to the bottom of the rift.<br />Sheri Tepper loves to tell tales that are quests within quests.  When the first layer is solved then other layers are revealed, until the reader finally accepts that there are no real endings.  Tepper isn't the only author to work this way, but she is one of the few that can maintain the level of inventiveness required to sustain a long effort.  Mavin downplays her ability to shape-change in this volume so that the other characters that form her party can become real players rather than simply puppets.  Beedie in particular is a character who could easily have stood all on her own, questioning and fiercely independent.  This book represents a break from the True Game books, set on another continent with a whole variant ecology, proving there is nothing gimmicky about Tepper's skills.eedie in particular is a character who could easily have stood all on her own, questioning and fiercely independent.  This book represents a break from the True Game books, set on another continent with a whole variant ecology, proving there is nothing gimmicky about Tepper's skills.	2002-12-30
1291149:US	53082946	R1R60XD7OUMCDJ	0441775233	397543212	Song Of Mavin Manyshaped	Books	4	17	17	N	N	"Terror, terror, monstrous this evil."	Mavin's trilogy is a prequel to Sheri Tepper's stories of the lands of the True Game.  When we meet the famous shape-changer in the other six novels, she is a grown adult.  We know her as Peter's mother and Himaggery's sometimes lover, but mostly she is an occasional actor whose critical importance to the series only flowers at the end.  However, Mavin is a spectacular person all on her own, and with this novel we start with her beginnings in Danderbat keep.<br />Shape-changer culture is more than a little odd.  The ability to be almost anything creates a certain tricksy attitude and a need for a very different set of rules than apply to other gamesmen.  In Danderbat, female shape-changers are rare, and their lot is to bear children for the keep before they can find their own freedom.  This is not a very pleasant fate, and Mavin's sister Handbright, unable to conceive, has been thoroughly worn down by the pressures of being an available resource.  When Mavin's talent finally surfaces, she has no desire to take Handbright's place.  Instead, she works her sister's release, and then escapes with Mertyn, her brother.<br />On her way to another shifters' keep, Mavin falls in with the entourage of the seer Windlow who is gathering students for the school he is starting at High Demesne.  A stop at Pfarb Durim on the way exposes Mertyn to ghoul-plague, which has been released by Blourbast.  He is a gamesman of extremely indelicate tastes whose demesne is Poffle, called Hell's Maw by most.  Blourbast's hunger for the Shadowpeople is the source of the infection.  And since Healers refuse to come to Poffle or Pfarb Durim, only the Shadowpeople can undo the infection.<br />But for them to do that they need the return of a special token, a gift from the Ganver the Eestie.  Mavin to the rescue, of course.  But not without several unnerving experiences and a great deal of self-discovery.  The shape-changer's unorthodox mind defamiliarizes what was already the unpredictable world of the True Game.<br />Readers of the first six books in this series will find many old friends (and enemies) who appear here (pre-appear here?) for the first time.  Prepare for the appearances of Huld and Huldra, Proom, the Wizard Himaggery, Mertyn, Windlow and countless others too numerous to name.  The tale's richness comes from its connections to the earlier tales that follow it as well as its own narrative uniqueness.  It can almost stand alone, or be read first, but the story relies on some experience of the True Game to make complete sense.f the True Game.<br />Readers of the first six books in this series will find many old friends (and enemies) who appear here (pre-appear here?) for the first time.  Prepare for the appearances of Huld and Huldra, Proom, the Wizard Himaggery, Mertyn, Windlow and countless others too numerous to name.  The tale's richness comes from its connections to the earlier tales that follow it as well as its own narrative uniqueness.  It can almost stand alone, or be read first, but the story relies on some experience of the True Game to make complete sense.	2002-12-28
1294099:US	53082946	RQ6UY19RTZM9H	0553299514	594241958	Lullaby Town : An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	"There's a quaint little place..."	Most detectives would give their eyeteeth to be hired by a director as famous as Peter Alan Nelson, the king of the adventure movie.  Admittedly, the job was only one of finding Nelson's ex-wife and child who he hasn't seen in eleven years.  Suddenly, after dumping them for a film career Nelson feels a gap in his life which he intends to plug with Toby, his son, like it or not.  Nelson likes Elvis Cole because the detective is macho and has lots of attitude.  You can imagine what Cole actually thought, but sometimes money is money.<br />Cole finds out that Nelson's wife is far from the loser that the director thought she was.  He finds Karen Lloyd in Chelam, Connecticut.  The failed actress has become a bank vice-president, raising her son on her own and doing well.  Not as well as she should be, though. In the hard days, she did a favor for the mafia and now she's in Charlie DeLuca's back pocket.  Since Charlie is the son of the Capo and a complete psychotic, this is not a good place to be.  No problem, Elvis Cole and Joe Pike to the rescue.<br />By now, the reader should know that Pike/Cole solutions inevitably involve a surfeit of chaos and violence.  This time is no exception.  Cole has to worry about Toby, the mafia (several mafias), Peter Alan Nelson (who never behaves as if he is as old as Toby), and a steady flow of crazies.  Something a lot worse than a little money laundering is going on and Cole is stuck right in the middle of it.  Being Robert Crais' answer to the tired old archetype of the Los Angeles private investigator, you can trust Cole to smiles, cracks sarcastic jokes, play hero, and wait until you're not looking before he hits you up side of the head with a cast iron two-by-four.<br />This book, the third in the series, drags just a bit.  Or perhaps, it is just a little too predictable.  I like the interchanges between Pike and Cole, and the plot twists that it starts with, but the novel settles down into its plot too soon.  The inevitable violence comes arrives early and is over played.  Still, this is a pretty good read, not one a fan would ever want to miss.lence comes arrives early and is over played.  Still, this is a pretty good read, not one a fan would ever want to miss.	2002-12-25
1296101:US	53082946	R2HCZEJCZ8I41V	0812556143	99356401	Jinian Star-Eye	Books	5	7	7	N	N	"Mothwings go Spinning.  End and Beginning"	Now Jinian and Peter know that Lom, the world in which they live, has decided to die.  Part of it is humankind's fault, with all its abuse of the Talents, all the spiritless use of the land and its original creatures.  But, another part entirely is due to the wounds administered by its own kind.  Lom lost its hope when the Eesties brought down the Tower of the Daylight Bell.  Now Lom grieves for what was once in its heart.<br />Led by Ganver, one of the great Eesties, Jinian and Peter study the Maze, where Lom's memories are stored.  For a long time the Oracle faction of the Eesties has deliberately trod the paths of the planet's most painful memories.  And without the Daylight Bell to ring, shadow gathers and is put to hurtful work.  In the world outside, Huldra the Witch and Dedrina Deadeye search for vengeance for their losses at Jinian's hands, while trying to complete the grim tasks given them by the Giants of the Backless Throne.<br />Even though Ganver and the Maze have given Jinian needful clues, a daunting task awaits.  Hudra must be defeated.  The Tower rebuilt, the Bell recast, and then and only then can Lom begin to heal.  But for all these things there are great prices.  Many among the gamesmen will shed true tears as Jinian and the rest of her Seven gather power and bring this trilogy from Sheri Tepper's world of the True Game to its conclusion.<br />This is an amazing book in an amazing series.  Tepper finally fills in the gaps in our knowledge of Lom's true nature.  With each volume we believe again that the great battle is won and what we find is that there is always a ways to go.  Now we are at an end and find again that something must always replace that which dies.  Over the six volumes so far we have come to understand that underneath the little mysteries are greater ones.  A wealth of meaning abides in the heart of this world, and Sheri Tepper knows how to share it.	2002-12-22
1298753:US	53082946	R395H1N7JAXTGO	0812556127	506924323	Dervish Daughter (Jinian)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	"Disclose by the Deep Powers"	Jinian, Peter, Queynt and Chance are now on their way north in a cart drawn by Yittleby and Yattleby, two giant krylobos, native birds of Lom.  Their quest has turned into a hunt for the source of a yellow crystal even the slightest taste of which will cause its possessor to fall victim to a deep sense of peace and then die.  Jinian has buried whole families who have chosen to die by the road, and she knows something is horribly wrong with the world.<br />They follow the trail to Bloome, where a continuous series of festivals are held to use up the products of the cloth mill before more is produced.  The Dream Merchant's Man seeks them out hoping to trap them into taking his job and finds himself trapped into letting Queynt take over for them (you have to have been there).  For coming to Bloome are the Duke of Betand, Huldra the witch, Dedrina Deadeye, and Valearn the Ogress, all folk who have plotted evil against Peter and Jinian.  They are on the way to Fangel to meet with the Dream Merchant and make their deal with Storm Grower and Dream Miner.  Jinian's sense of evil tells her that this is the route to the source of the deadly crystals, and she intends to travel along.<br />Once again, we find ourselves on a tricksy tale that will march from Bloome to Fangel and thence under the Great Maze to the Backless Throne and the evil upon it.  Distracted by the ripples of her relationship with Peter, Jinian's survival skills are put to the test.  Soon she finds out that the secret of the crystals are of deep importance to the entire world, not just the Lands of the True Game.<br />Tepper continues to deliver a story that is always, somehow, more than we could expect.  Jinian is conflicted between her feelings for Peter and her need to complete the Wyse-ard term of celibacy.  Peter is confounded by the sudden appearance of his first female partner and the child he did not expect Queynt reveals an unexpected story, and Jinian learns even more about the Dervishes, her true people.  Last, but far from least, the reader discovers that this isn't a story of Peter, or Jinian or any group of Gamesman.  The true game belongs to Lom, the world itself.people.  Last, but far from least, the reader discovers that this isn't a story of Peter, or Jinian or any group of Gamesman.  The true game belongs to Lom, the world itself.	2002-12-19
1300875:US	53082946	R1XZJ132HOXABH	156971746X	41000478	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 10: Secrets	Books	5	5	5	N	N	"What will these hollow men be good for?"	Due to the accident of the order I read this series in, the last several have been horrendously violent.  There can be a certain elegance to the dealing of death, but Hiroaki Samura goes beyond the surface ritual and frequently reminds us that it is not graceful technique, but winning that determines survival.  This is an ugly lesson, and Samura never fails to make it clear.  In any case, I'd gotten to inured to pieces of people flying all over that I was quite surprised upon reaching 'Secrets' to find the events focused on character development.  No doubt, this was intentional on the part of the storyteller, and quite effective.<br />The book opens upon Anotsu Kagehisa making he was through Kaga on his way to the Shingyoto-Ryu sword school.  Its master, Ibane Kensui, has decided to offer the school to Anotsu if he will accept one certain condition.  Ibane wants Anotsu to marry Hisoka, his ward.  This opens a series of interchanges between Anotsu, Ibane and Hisoka that are quite revealing.  Anotsu has actually never been portrayed as an completely evil man, and now we discover that he as some very positive reasons for his actions, nor is he the sort to take thoughtless advantage of Hisoka.<br />Back in Edo, Manji is recovering (actually, reassembling himself) at Master Sori's painting studio.  Sori was the man who originally funded Rin's quest for revenge, and recently Manji has realized that the painter in blood is one of the Shogun's spies.  Manji is, as usual, something of an ingrate, and he still cannot bring himself to trust Hyakurin, the woman spy who rescued him from his last disaster.  As Manji puzzles this out, he discovers that there will be one more guest at Sori's home, Magatso Taito of the Itto-Ryu, who Manji has fought more than once.  In fact, each man thought the other was dead.<br />Manji discovers that Magatso has left the Itto-Ryu and is searching for the swordsman who killed the woman he loved.  Surprisingly, Manji knows the killer as well - Shira, who has a grudge of his own against Manji.  The two swordsmen find themselves drawn together against a single enemy.  With all this happening, Samura still takes time to show Rin, who is having her own struggles making her way to a showdown in Kaqa.<br />Taken in total, this is one of the best of the series, reinstating the sense of story line and helping the reader to see some of the characters in a different light.  Some mysteries are resolved, and some new questions allowed to surface.  This is truly a showpiece of illustration and narrative.a, who has a grudge of his own against Manji.  The two swordsmen find themselves drawn together against a single enemy.  With all this happening, Samura still takes time to show Rin, who is having her own struggles making her way to a showdown in Kaqa.  <br />Taken in total, this is one of the best of the series, reinstating the sense of story line and helping the reader to see some of the characters in a different light.  Some mysteries are resolved, and some new questions allowed to surface.  This is truly a showpiece of illustration and narrative.	2002-12-18
1304168:US	53082946	R1S0CIO1L11E1B	0812556100	374359931	Jinian Footseer	Books	5	12	13	N	N	&quot;Tricksie Lie Brings Tricksie Tie&quot;	This volume begins the second of the three trilogies that compose Sheri Tepper's epic tale of the Land of the True Game.  This time we will see the tale through the eyes of Jinian of Stoneflight Demesne.  Of course, we have met Jinian before.  But know only what Peter discovered in the short period when he met Jinian and came to care for her.  Now we come to find out that Jinian has great depths of her own.  This is our introduction to her history and will bring us up-to-date, so that we are ready to join the young couple and their friends on a journey past the borders of the lands of the gamesmen.<br />Jinian, raised as an unwelcome child in a Talented family finds that her best and only friends are seven 'sisters' who undertake her care and education when her mother and brother give Jinian nothing but cause to fear.  Murzy, Tess Tinder-my-hand, Margaret Foxmitten, Betts Battereye, Cat Candleshy, and Sarah Shadowsox.  With Jinian, they make seven.  From them the young girl learns the elements of Wyze-art, true magic in a world where most magic is really just the powers of the various talents that developed when humans fled to this world.<br />Jinian is caught in a game not of her own making, between Porvius Bloster, a Tragamoor lost in a dream, and her not so brotherly brother, Mendost the Armiger.  Barely making her escape, Jinian comes to Chimmerdong forest, which will need her help when she is ready to give it.  There she also meets the Flitchhawk, the Oracle, and countless others, both foe and friend.  Jinian will come to attend Vorbold's House in Xammer, avoid yet another game played against her until finally she comes to take her place among the Wyze-ards.  And finally, she will meet Peter for the second time and open a completely new chapter of adventures.<br />I hope I have managed to give the reader the impression of a complex story full of imaginative diversions.  What I have yet to do is confess that Jinian is a truly marvelous character.  She approaches her life with bright intensity and determination, and manages to maintain a certain whimsical philosophy.  Whether she is casting spells or talking to bunwits, Jinian is an engaging narrator.  In a genuinely tricksie world Jinian is a touchstone of common sense, outwitting her opponents and charming her friends.<br />If anything, I like this second series even better than Tepper's first.  Peter has his own magic, but Tepper goes an extra mile in developing Jinian and the characters she meets.  In this story both the game world and the real world meet head on, and I think the Armigers, Tragamoors, and Basilisks come out the worst for wear.her life with bright intensity and determination, and manages to maintain a certain whimsical philosophy.  Whether she is casting spells or talking to bunwits, Jinian is an engaging narrator.  In a genuinely tricksie world Jinian is a touchstone of common sense, outwitting her opponents and charming her friends.<br />If anything, I like this second series even better than Tepper's first.  Peter has his own magic, but Tepper goes an extra mile in developing Jinian and the characters she meets.  In this story both the game world and the real world meet head on, and I think the Armigers, Tragamoors, and Basilisks come out the worst for wear.	2002-12-15
1306236:US	53082946	R1GKA02UAS0TMK	0500277923	535217827	Celtic Design: The Dragon and the Griffin	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Marvels of Ancient Europe	Aidan Meehan has a great ability to combine solid art history with the never-ending fascination of Celtic artwork without putting the reader off with excess pedantry.  In this book in particular, his historic discussions surprised me on several occasions.  My initial belief that Celtic art as an isolated form is that of a rank amateur, and Meehan does a fine job of disabusing me and showing how Celtic decoration and illumination started with oriental influences which then mixed with Teutonic and Viking to create a beautiful synthesis.<br />Of course , the history is framed with Meehan's own renditions of the artwork, each with appropriate discussion of both their unique features and the interlinked development as Irish and Viking met first in conflict and then in trade.  Since Meehan's primary audience is artists, he spends the best part of the book showing not just the patterns, but how they are formed and woven into a whole.<br />Aidan and Oisin Meehan's illustration and calligraphy are strong and clear, with some 220 illustrations.  There is a great romance to these images, that has carried forward even into far more modern art.  Aidan Meehan is one of those who have dedicated his life's work to keeping these traditions alive.	2002-12-13
1308477:US	53082946	R1U9CJ9DS6UGKM	044190209X	160500787	Wizards Eleven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Game and Match	Peter Mavin's Son has been kept busy since the downfall of the magicians.  He hunts for the tiny blue figures that are the extracted essence of those who were reduced to empty bodies.  In addition, he is earnest for any information about Huld, the Demon who is Peter's true enemy.  When he has time for himself, he finds that he misses old friends.  Especially Silkhands the Healer, who has gone away to teach at Xammer.<br />When Windlow's blue suddenly has a vision of Silkhands and Peter gone far to the north, the young shapechanger seizes the excuse and sets off to visit.  No sooner are they on the road than an attack befalls them and Peter realizes that he has more to fear than just Huld.  He and Chance survive the game and arrive in Xammer to the delight of Silkhands.  When a minstrel sings the two of them a haunting song, both decide to head North, accompanying Jinian Footseer to her proposed husband.  And Jinian is very, very special.<br />And so they are off, passing places with eerie names - Dindinaroo, Waeneye, and the Wastes of Bleer, encountering old friends and new, and some familiar enemies.  Peter seems for ordained to bring about the changes that Mertyn and Himaggery dream of, but he must first face the places of bone and Huld's unending betrayal and evil.<br />There is a writer's urban legend that says that one of a trilogy is supposed to be worse than the others are.  I am here to insist that with Sheri Tepper this is hardly the case.  Not only is this first of the three trilogies composed of staves of equal strength, but also there is more to come for anyone so bespelled.  Three times now I have read \\"King's Blood Four,\\" \\"Necromancer's Nine,\\" and \\"Wizard's Eleven\\" all in gulps because I can't make myself stop.  Three times for three threes - I confess - I am charmed.	2002-12-11
1309596:US	53082946	R30PIUKCCSJQXZ	8484310647	524179215	Mekanika	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intricate Life	For all of the 90's and part of the 80's Oscar Chichoni has been one of the illustrators who has fueled the art of modern science fiction, and by that art influences both literary and filmic creativity.  He is best known for his work in Heavy Metal, the game and book artwork for 'Starship Titanic, and as the art director who won an Oscar for the film 'Restoration.'  But any scan of the web will reveal that he can be found almost everywhere.<br />Chichoni's best-known style combines mechanical intricacy and sensuality in a striking statement of Art Deco reborn.  Truth be told, he is a man of many pencils, and is capable countless other styles hard-edged, gothic, impressionist, almost anything that might fire the imagination.<br />'Mekanika,' issued in 2000, is the first collection of work but this Argentinan born artist.  Almost all the work here dates after his decision to relocate to Europe, which seemed to trigger a creative flowering that hopefully will never stop.  The reader will find both published and unknown work here plus an interesting discussion by the artist himself.  If you are a lover of works of the imagination this is a collection that is required reading, and has become hard to find.	2002-12-10
1311957:US	53082946	R1S1P5P0CF46ZI	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Death Row Killers	After reading 'Violets are Blue', I felt that James Patterson had become locked into a pattern in his suspense stories.  At one end of the story is Alex Cross, psychologist turned homicide detective and at the other is one or another variation of the psychotic mastermind.  Because this is such a generic formula, one can get a lot of mileage out of it before it becomes noticeably repetitious.  However, 'Violets are Blue' was not all that well written, and I found myself predicting too much of the book's events.<br />'Four Blind Mice' is a much better vehicle, although the basic pattern is still present.  This time Alex's partner and friend, John Sampson drags Alex into a case that starts out ugly and then gets very frightening.  Sgt. Ellis Cooper, a man Sampson admires greatly, is sitting on death row awaiting execution for crimes that he apparently did not commit.  The two detectives pour a tremendous amount of energy into finding the truth, but they can only find shadows and whispers of a pattern of murder and accusation that has led a series of Viet Nam veterans to their deaths.<br />Again Patterson exposes the killers almost immediately, and leaves the reader waiting impatiently for Cross and Sampson to catch up, while we get to spend time inside the heads of the killers.  Even when it is clear that the executions are really assassinations, it is difficult to uncover the underlying motivation.  Cross finds himself receiving anonymous messages from someone named 'Foot Soldier', who is apparently the mind behind much that is going on.  But nothing comes clear easily.<br />Alex has a lot going on in his life to distract him.  He is falling in love with Jamilla Hughes, a detective on the other side of the continent, he is considering leaving his job, and something is not quite right with Nana Mama, who has been most of the stability in Alex's life.  Much to worry about and not many easy answers.<br />Despite the improvement in narrative, I still find books that immediately reveal the killers less satisfying than those that keep more secrets.  Patterson simply does not leave much for the reader to guess, turning this from a mystery story to a pure suspense tale.  Whether you will like this or not is largely a matter of your preferences as a reader.  I can tell you that the writing is good, the characters are interesting, the puzzle is intricate, and the suspense really is there.iately reveal the killers less satisfying than those that keep more secrets.  Patterson simply does not leave much for the reader to guess, turning this from a mystery story to a pure suspense tale.  Whether you will like this or not is largely a matter of your preferences as a reader.  I can tell you that the writing is good, the characters are interesting, the puzzle is intricate, and the suspense really is there.	2002-12-09
1312475:US	53082946	R2CALGE2M06TED	1569715319	412843538	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 7: Heart of Darkness	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"Those who gain power must pay a price"	Manji and Rin have found that there are others who seek the life of Anotsu Kagehisa.  The deadly leader of the Itto-ryu has left a grand trail of death behind him - Rin's parents are only a few of the victims.  Now the two wanderers have met up with six Mugai-ryu assassins with whom they seem to share cause.  In a bathhouse in Edo, they hash out the arrangement.  Manji agrees to help the assassins in return for information about the Itto-ryu.<br />For a time they wait.  Rin finds she has some things in common with the blonde Hyakurin, and unusual woman who is the head of the assassins.  Of course, Manji does what he always does during periods of boredom - he sleeps.  However, for a short period there is something that resembles peace.  Then word comes that Anotsu is planning to leave Edo for Kaga, disguised as a woman.  Tensions mount almost unbearably as the team waits for the killer to try to sneak by.<br />Suddenly everything happens at once.  The disarming pace of the opening stanzas is abandoned, and suddenly the reader is in the midst of not one, but four violent confrontations.  Weapons and parts fly in an utterly psychotic display of unsuppressed anger.  To be honest, even the fine artwork does little to mask the horror of the fight scenes.  I found this all a bit too chaotic - it took me several readings to put together who is killing who for what reason.<br />Hiroaki Samura clearly has a message other than the glorification of fancy sword work.  Because of the amount of violence used to make his point it is a bit too easy to miss the fact that this series really is not about the thrills of wholesale murder and revenge.  The question is whether there will be any survivors to benefit from their individual epiphanies.	2002-12-08
1313793:US	53082946	R1WOAEVTLAAI1L	0441445268	923010299	Kings Blood Four	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Challenge and Game	I am not sure that this is Sheri Tepper's first novel, but it is certainly the one that put her on the creative map.  Tepper introduces a now world, an unusual theory of magic, and a striking hero.  One of the things I appreciate while reading it is that it refused to lie down and just be a 'coming of age' tale of a new mage.  Instead, every time you settle into what most would think was 'the plot groove' something unusual happens to prove that not only is nothing as it seems, but that the price of power can be dreadful.<br />Peter is a young student at Mertyn's school at Schooltown, where young potentials go to find out if they will be players in the true game, or pawns.  He is still a novice, and has demonstrated no great skill when Mandor, a Prince and gamesmaster, takes advantage of their friendship.  Mandor deliberately tries to sacrifice Peter in an unsanctioned game declared against King Mertyn.  While Mandor is undone and banished, Peter is badly injured.  Mertyn decides that it would be best to send Peter to study at the school at High Demesne.<br />Peter, accompanied by his friend Yarrell and Chance, who serves as cook, advisor, and guide, set out across the lands of the True Game,  The reader gradually learns the language of the place, with mind reading demons, princes full of glamour,  heralds who fly and are the voices of kings, and perhaps a shape changer or too.  All of this sounds wonderful until you find out that what fuels power is heat.  When the heat in the great furnaces fails then the pawns are drained like sticks of wood.  In Peter's world, a game once called is a death sentence for those who fail.<br />Eventually, Peter will meet with Himaggery, the wizard of the Bright Demesne, Silkhands the Healer, and many other quirky and sometimes horrific characters.  He discovers that he is being sought by suspicious characters a purpose he does not comprehend.  With danger all about him, Peter enters a quest that will grant him insight into his history, his powers, and the importance of heresy.<br />This book is a treasure of modern fantasy.  The characters are compelling, and Tepper has the minimalist's skill for bringing images to life with a few sure strokes.  She also has a solid sense of the mechanism and ethics of magical powers, and manages to demonstrate this without overbearing lectures or any more tragedy than is absolutely necessary.  \\"King's Blood Four' and its sister volumes are required reading for those who want to understand how modern fantasy came to be more than a perpetual rehash of archetypes and elves.  By all means, track down the volumes of the story of the True Game.  They are each short, and will stay in your mind forever,y, his powers, and the importance of heresy.<br />This book is a treasure of modern fantasy.  The characters are compelling, and Tepper has the minimalist's skill for bringing images to life with a few sure strokes.  She also has a solid sense of the mechanism and ethics of magical powers, and manages to demonstrate this without overbearing lectures or any more tragedy than is absolutely necessary.  \\"King's Blood Four' and its sister volumes are required reading for those who want to understand how modern fantasy came to be more than a perpetual rehash of archetypes and elves.  By all means, track down the volumes of the story of the True Game.  They are each short, and will stay in your mind forever,	2002-12-07
1315241:US	53082946	REWAKWAXILKP4	0441568572	678886077	Necromancer Nine	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Peter, Peter, Shapeshifter.	After the great game at Bannerwell, Peter quickly tires of life at the Bright Demesne.  There is much he still has to discover about his own nature, and Himaggery and Windlow never seem to lack for tasks to distract him.  Finally, Peter takes matters into his own hands (claws) and declares his intention to find his mother, Mavin Manyshaped, and find out more about his heritage and powers.  He visits first with Mertyn at Schooltown, where his old teacher gives him a riddle that will guide him to Mavin.  An Elator suddenly arrives with news that Himaggery and Windlow have disappears, and what Peter thought was a leisurely voyage turns out to be a desperate quest.<br />And so begins the second volume in Sheri Tepper's series about the lands of the True Game.  Peter's travels will take him all over the map of the Lands of the True Game, and by the time he finds Mavin he will visit a city haunted by a ghost of the future, he will find friends in the shadows, and visit the shifty valley of Schlaizy Noithn.  He will avoid an attempt to capture him.  In the process, he will learn to work better with the game pieces of Barish as they provide him with needful talents for getting past the rough spots.<br />Mavin and Peter have a quest all their own, as they seek to solve the mystery of the disappearances.  They find themselves embroiled in the strange workings of Magicians and Monsters.  The prize is a better understanding of how Peter's world came to be and a sense of the scale of what the young shifter must hope to accomplish if he is to bring justice to the game.<br />Just when we were satisfied that Sheri Tepper was a promising fantasy writer.  We discover that she has actually written a crossover novel where the Talents that make everything seem magical are true forces as well.  This is fiercely intelligent and imaginative work, where even the most eccentric minor character is memorable.  First you think the author has concocted everything out of whole cloth, and then you find that there is a convincing logical coherence that drives the events.  Prepare to put this book down and immediately reach for its sequel,find that there is a convincing logical coherence that drives the events.  Prepare to put this book down and immediately reach for its sequel,	2002-12-06
1318676:US	53082946	R2JVEXPRS4O7NQ	0375414878	652828607	Only Child: A Burke Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	"Watch me, watch me close."	When it becomes clear at the end of 'Pain Management' that Burke has decided to return home to New York many readers breathed a sigh of relief.  Burke's pain at his losses had created a world that was too nightmarishly bleak, even for Andrew Vachss.  If the silent crusader had remained, the call of the zero would simply have become too strong.<br />So the first part of 'Only Child' is a homecoming, one as joy filled as a Vachss story is ever allowed to get.  Burke's family - Michelle the transsexual, Mama, the Professor, the Mole, Clarence, Max, Terry, and the countless others that Burke has helped all reappear.  It is unusual to speak of love in the dark side of the city that Vachss' characters inhabit, but it is there, ready to lend one of the shadow knight all the strength he needs.<br />The case Burke becomes a reflection of Burke's one need for family.  Two men, both important in the organized crime world come to Burke with a grim problem.  One of them had and interracial daughter at a time that is organization could not tolerate that behavior.  He gave in to his fears and detached from the woman, and now, 18 years later she is dead, stabbed repeatedly and the police are useless.  Giovanni doesn't know if the killing was a sex crime or an attempt at getting to him, but he wants revenge.  And he and his lover want Burke to find the killer.<br />The story turns into an intricate piece of detection, which is rare for a Vachss novel.  In order to penetrate the world the girl lived in, Burke must hatch scheme after scheme, including an outstanding effort as a casting director.  This is really one of Vachss more interesting plots, a shade less noir than usual.  Think of it as an anti-heroic procedural.<br />It has been a while since a Burke story has been this light on its feet, and the change is refreshing.  The dialog is sharp, Vachss knack for making the reader feel the ghostly presence of the darkness is at a peak.  As is his ability to penetrate to the essence of the victims and their predators.  I think many old fans who have been less than happy lately will find this one a source of great delight.of the victims and their predators.  I think many old fans who have been less than happy lately will find this one a source of great delight.	2002-12-03
1321850:US	53082946	R1QC6HZ50P0R7N	0500277907	437408779	The Book of Kells: An Illustrated Introduction to the Manuscript in Trinity College, Dublin (Second Edition)	Books	5	185	188	N	N	"The most precious object in the western world"	Resting at Trinity College Dublin is one of the truly singular products of early European art.  This is 'The Book of Kells,' an ornately illuminated rendition of the four gospels, rendered sometime in the Ninth Century.  It has been both an influence and an inspiration since the time of its making, illustrating both the story it tells, and the subtle mind of symbolists who wove the story and the art together.<br />One of the key problems the student of illustrated art suffers in any attempt to study 'The Book of Kells' is the simple matter of access.  I believe that the replica edition of the book cost nearly $20,000 when it was published, and most other resources limit themselves to only the most famous of the pages.  Only a few detailed studies exist, and this one, written by Bernard Meehan (Keeper of Manuscripts at Trinity College), is one of the best, both in terms of quality and quantity of reproduction as well as a literate and thorough discussion.<br />Meehan covers the book's history, influences and parallels, the decorative scheme, and many of the decorative themes used by the illuminators.  He also spends time on the more technical aspects of ink and paper.  He does this in a pleasant, straightforward yet academically thorough style that is often a fount of information.  Where he does not go himself, he provides indications of other possibilities for research and thought.  Meehan's agenda is simply to present one of the wonders of human creativity for all to see and enjoy, and he succeeds admirably.	2002-12-01
1322991:US	53082946	RSM7LMHIBNWXG	0441521053	870986257	Masque World (An Anthony Villiers Adventure)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;Given the right premises, any conclusion can be reached.&quot;	Some 30 years ago, Alexei Panshin authored a series of three science fiction novels that have achieved minor legendary status.  These were about a somewhat venal nobleman - Anthony Villiers, Viscount Charteris - and his highly illegal traveling companion Torve the Trog.  What Trogs look like are six foot tall fur bearing frogs, what they think like has made them persona non grata throughout the Nashuite empire.<br />Trogs believe, among other strange things, that events arise out of imminent conjugation, rather than cause and effect.  They have a fine sense of when these intersections of time and space are going to occur, during which they are known to express themselves with &quot;Thurbs&quot; of appreciation.  Since they are also known to behave unpredictably at these moments, the Emperor has seen fit to invite them to remain in the vicinity of their home planet, where the most likely victim of a &quot;Thurb&quot; is likely to be another Trog.<br />Villiers and Torve have come to Delbaso to pick up some forged papers for the Trog so that he will no longer have to baffle as many customs officers; in addition, the viscount wants to pick up the stipend that his family pays them to stay out of their way.  While not as unpredictable as Torve, Villiers has a tendency to wander into adventures that his relatives find disconcerting.  The current arrangement suits everyone.<br />Or it would if the post from Duden would arrive, and if Lord Semichastny, Villier's uncle, had not conveniently misplaced the bank draft.  For there is more afoot that the disguising of illegal aliens.  The Delbaso Monist Association's Xochitl society is seeking wonders and marvels.  The peels are grunting, and the bells of the last Christian historian are pealing.  Lord Semichastny plots defiance of Delbaso's Winter-Summer Laws (recently enacted to force his lordship to leave the planet) by planning a party and hefting rotten melons at Lady Oliphaunt.  Obviously, conjugations are threatening to break out everywhere.<br />Panshin's style, which combines wit with a sublime sense of the ridiculous, is something I have missed dearly.  But unfortunately, these works are given to momentary reappearances followed by long period out of print.  At present, 'Masque World' is the only one available.  Recently the three Villiers novels have appeared in electronic form, which will help them regain some well-deserved notoriety.  Lacking that, keep an eye out for them on the shelves of used bookstores in the hope that you can conjugate with a copy imminently.eak out everywhere.<br />Panshin's style, which combines wit with a sublime sense of the ridiculous, is something I have missed dearly.  But unfortunately, these works are given to momentary reappearances followed by long period out of print.  At present, 'Masque World' is the only one available.  Recently the three Villiers novels have appeared in electronic form, which will help them regain some well-deserved notoriety.  Lacking that, keep an eye out for them on the shelves of used bookstores in the hope that you can conjugate with a copy imminently.	2002-11-30
1323571:US	53082946	R3KAIXCHRWNYJ7	1585672696	379013354	Freddy and the Men from Mars (Freddy the Pig Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Pig 200, Rats 0	Freddy the Pig and his friends from the Bean farm have come a long way from their first trip to Florida in 1928.  Now they have a Farm Animals Republic, a bank, a newspaper, an atomic powered car and even a rocket ship.  But, despite the prestige and renown of being Bean farm animals, their basic nature had remains the same - they are honest, forthright, and darned funny.<br />Things bode ill for the Boomschmidt Circus when Herbert Garble (who has never had an honest day in his life) joins them with six strange looking men from Mars - each a foot high, in red pajamas and wearing red fluffy whiskers.  Freddy is sure there is some fraud involved, but the Circus is making a ton of money and the last thing the farm animals want to do is hurt Mr. Boomschmidt.  Freddy, Jinx the Cat, Uncle Ben and Mrs. Peppercorn head out to investigate.<br />What they find is pretty fishy, or rather, pretty ratty.  Mean old Simon the rat and his family are up to their necks in trouble making, and Garble's Martians are just the start.  If the rats have their way the Beans will be forced off their farm and Uncle Ben will lose his rocket ship.  Drastic times call for drastic measures as the animals prepare to go to war.<br />If things are strange with fake Martians, they get stranger when a flying saucer full of real Martians shows up to investigate.  Soon there are rats pretending they are Martians, rabbits pretending they are rats pretending they are Martians, and real Martians stirring the pot.  As Freddy nearly is sent to Montana to become pork chops and bacon, everything hangs in the balance.<br />As always Walter Brooks' tales combine humor and suspense with a natural sense of values that apply equally to animal and man.  If the science in this book is a bit silly it is still engaging enough for its intended readership.  And the simple lessons of friendship and doing what is right never grow old.	2002-11-29
1326930:US	53082946	RERNUAGUSUD1R	0441519628	650052395	Marianne, the Madame, and the Momentary Gods	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Care and Feeding of Deities	It's embarrassing when you are digging through your to be read shelf (shelves) and you discover that a book has managed to get tucked away so well that it has remained hidden for ten years.  Sheri Tepper, probably still best known for her True Game series is one of my favorite fantasists.  She has an artful way of combining humor, whimsy and drama into works that take frequent unexpected turns and have endearing casts.<br />'Marianne, the Madame, and the Momentary Gods' is the sequel to 'Marianne, the Magus, and the Manticore,' which I read so long ago that I dare not attempt to remember it.  But the heroine is Marianne, a young woman with surprising talents and assets that are coveted by Madame Tabiti Delubovoska, a very nasty witch who has a knack for catapulting her victims into bad places and doing away with anyone who gets in her way.  When the Madame kills Marianne's parents and sets out after the young lady, Marianne escapes, and then doubles back on her history to try to set things right.<br />And this brings us to the current volume, in which Marianne reawakens as a child and starts to relive her live, this time with the assistance of the previous Marianne and 5 dog-like Momentary Gods, who just might control reality.  The Madame's attempt on Marianne and her parents is foiled this time.  However, Marianne, a bit upset at discovering there are two Marianne's in her head, rebels and sets out to live her own life.  Unfortunately, this leaves her vulnerable, and the Madame traps her in a world where nothing stays the same and one needs a new map every day.  The Momentary Gods and Makr Avehl (her former lover) come to her rescue, but is will be an intense struggle and a very close thing.<br />While the concepts that underlie the story are fairly complex, Tepper manages to avoid and gobbledygook in exercising our imaginations.  The story is light and charming, perhaps a bit too much of an appetizer than anything else.  Even so, the writer shows a talent for social satire in her depiction of the chaotic city.  Tepper also makes sure that the reader understands that finding two minds in one body is no trivial thing.  Although the story really should be read after it's predecessor, no harm was really done by my memory failure.  Even after ten years this is a pleasing confection.al satire in her depiction of the chaotic city.  Tepper also makes sure that the reader understands that finding two minds in one body is no trivial thing.  Although the story really should be read after it's predecessor, no harm was really done by my memory failure.  Even after ten years this is a pleasing confection.	2002-11-26
1329747:US	53082946	RWSNDK3ESTXNP	1880448963	530673051	Fourth Mansions	Books	5	38	38	N	N	&quot;There is also the danger of serpents&quot;	An incidental remark about allegories reminded me of this little volume by R.A. Lafferty.  In many ways, I think it is his finest, although all of his efforts are remarkable.  Whatever your preference, 'Fourth Mansions' remains the most unusual of its genre, an allegory that refuses to take itself seriously.<br />When Freddy Foley, newspaperman and innocent, discovers that certain people seem to reappear at irregular intervals he insists on investigating and soon finds himself hip deep in a metaphysical odyssey.  He discovers that there is not one, but four separate subcultures that share the world with humanity.  The best of these are the badgers that guard the entrances of the human domain.  The worst are the toads, the ones who sleep and are reborn.  These are dedicated to keeping the world from evolving to the next level.  Every time things get better they make sure they really get worse.<br />Then there are the snakes whose wild mental energy runs out of control.  For them the rest of us are toys to play with, energy to use up.  Finally, there are the unfledged falcons.  Well intentioned, they are the premature warriors, champions of violent solutions.  Best to worst they spell little good for Freddy, whose truth seeking will lead him to the tops of mountains and the cells of asylums.  'Goof gloriously,' the snakes order poor Freddy, and so he does.<br />Lafferty performs an unexpected deconstruction of the mythology of man's progress, and creates an entirely unique narrative for inner progress.  Foley is Everyman (Foley = The Fool) on a journey towards a higher plane of being, impeded by creatures that symbolize his own weaknesses.  The tale is told tongue-in-cheek, a burlesque parody of one pilgrim's progress.  Filled with more mad characters than all of 'Canterbury Tales,' the reader is often left unsure whether to laugh or take notes.<br />Of course, this is the great flaw of allegory; it never loses the taint of lecture.  Plot serves message unforgivingly.  'Fourth Mansions' is only partly fiction as we progress from lesson to lesson.  The good news is that Lafferty refuses to fall into the trap of being tedious, and, instead, allows the allegory to parody itself.  Still, this is unusual entertainment, and not meant for everyone.  Full of mind games and obscure symbolism made garish, it is a child of the late 60's, although I think it's intent is more valid now then it was then.  Nowadays I sometimes wonder if the toads have managed to win after all.'Fourth Mansions' is only partly fiction as we progress from lesson to lesson.  The good news is that Lafferty refuses to fall into the trap of being tedious, and, instead, allows the allegory to parody itself.  Still, this is unusual entertainment, and not meant for everyone.  Full of mind games and obscure symbolism made garish, it is a child of the late 60's, although I think it's intent is more valid now then it was then.  Nowadays I sometimes wonder if the toads have managed to win after all.	2002-11-23
1331560:US	53082946	R21YNO4JYUB61I	0380804212	211102990	Fury	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	"In this dreary and comfortless region..."	Sometimes my loyalties get in the way of good sense.  When I think G. M. Ford, I think Leo Waterman, the slightly haphazard private investigator and the crew of alcoholics that act as his assistants.  A little noir, often funny, these have been one of my secret delights for many years.  All of a sudden, when I wasn't looking, Ford has started a new series with a totally different main character.  My first reaction is 'who the heck is this Frank Corso, and what is he doing where Leo Waterman used to be?'<br />Corso, a newspaper writer nearly ruined by a reporting scandal, has made a new start in Seattle, writing columns and true crime books.  Now a three-year-old story about a serial killer has come back to haunt him in the form of Leanne Samples, who was the main source of testimony against Walter Leroy Himes, and who now claims she lied.  Himes is six days from execution and Corso wants nothing to do with the case, but fate has a way of playing tricks, and Corso finds himself digging through ancient history with the aid of Meg Dougherty, a tough lady photographer with a major tattoo problem.<br />Everyone wants Himes dead.  He is an utterly irredeemable psychotic who, if he is innocent, is only so by accident.  Corso finds himself at war with all of the Seattle police department and most of city hall.  Everyone has something to hide.  The only way to stop Himes execution is for Corso to find the killer himself.  And that is likely to make Corso as dead as the eight victims.<br />Like a master, Ford picks you up on the first page, shakes you around until your brains rattle, slaps you into a rollercoaster seat and disconnects the brakes.  Waterman fans will find that Ford has created a completely new character, fiercely private and attitude ridden.  To make the break with the past complete, the pacing and style are different enough to make the reader feel that he has discovered an entirely new author.  One who has no qualms about the occasional use of a two-by-four to get the reader's attention.<br />However, this isn't a simple tough guy noir story.  There is as much solid detection as there is stomach churning.  Plus some fine interior views of the dirty side of Seattle and the city's not so finest.  Whether you are an old fan or someone considering making the first dip, you will find this a rewarding read.o get the reader's attention.<br />However, this isn't a simple tough guy noir story.  There is as much solid detection as there is stomach churning.  Plus some fine interior views of the dirty side of Seattle and the city's not so finest.  Whether you are an old fan or someone considering making the first dip, you will find this a rewarding read.	2002-11-22
1331706:US	53082946	R1URHWAWW9ORVR	0060110740	4230279	The Flight of Dragons	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Problem of the Flying Brick	Peter Dickinson's classic book on such imponderables as how (and why) dragons fly is one of my favorite books on the care and feeding of our scaled neighbors.  He goes into great detail about what it takes to get a 20,000-pound appetite up into the air and speeding to its next meal.  Sometimes slightly tongue-in-cheek, Dickinson draws on legend and story to create a delightful theory that takes the imaginary and makes it real.<br />Not satisfied with explaining away the impossible, Dickinson goes on to explore the dragon life cycle, habitat and sociology.  I took particular delight in the section that explains that most horrific of monsters, the george, otherwise known as 'the mean man in the tin can.'  He is quite outspoken about the monstrous atrocities committed in the name of 'dragon-slaying.'  And for doubters, there is even a section citing the evidences for the existence of dragons.  Of course, those of us who drive from peak to peak dragon-watching in our ancient Volkswagen busses need no further evidence.<br />The other delight in this book is the rich illustration by Wayne Anderson.  We find dragons cute and fearsome, old and new.  The work is both beautiful and whimsical, and you will find yourself returning to the images countless times, whenever the dream starts to fade.  The book is both beautiful and fun - a worthwhile addition to the mythophile's library.	2002-11-21
1333227:US	53082946	R1UPQL56RC81KO	0671016776	12366720	Gravity	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Unwelcome Guests	No environment contains as many medical threats as a space station.  A small group of people living in close proximity, limited medical equipment, and a host of biological experiments always in process, all of this adds up to a high risk for infectious and deadly diseases.  For this reason, incoming work is carefully screened for possible toxicity, and the team is trained in careful adherence to procedure.  Yet the smallest of slips can spell disaster.<br />When a tragic accident back on earth triggers a momentary slip on the station, something unexpected is let loose.  Dr. Emma Watson arrives on the station to discover the first signs of an inexplicable infection that has horrific symptoms.  Without good equipment, all she can do is try to ease the symptoms and wait for a miracle.  Back on earth, her husband tries desperately to find the source of the disease and a way to treat it.  But government authorities start directly interfering with NASA efforts and McCallum begins to suspect the problem is worse than a bad bug.<br />Tess Gerritsen succeeds at the kind of medical thriller that is the Waterloo of writers with less capability.  She has to balance a tremendous amount of science with the personal issues of men and women faced with a slow and ugly disease.  Making everything seem real is a major challenge.  Gerritsen was an internist before she took up writing and she has a knack for communicating medical details without stupefying the reader.  In addition, she manages to master NASA speak well enough to convince this reader that her scenes were completely real.<br />But Gerritsen really shines at steadily building suspense in the interweaving of the personalities of her characters.  What her characters feel and think will complete engages the reader.  From the relationship problems of Jack and Emma to the kind of government agents you love to hate, the author offers the reader countless opportunities to become involved.<br />Gerritsen's flaw is her compulsion to make sure that all the clues are in place.  While managing to keep the reader guessing, she withholds very little information.  If the reader puts in all the effort required, it is possible to anticipate too many of the plot twists.  The solution, of course, is to read it a bit faster and brace yourself for a rollercoaster ride.  That should be no problem at all.o make sure that all the clues are in place.  While managing to keep the reader guessing, she withholds very little information.  If the reader puts in all the effort required, it is possible to anticipate too many of the plot twists.  The solution, of course, is to read it a bit faster and brace yourself for a rollercoaster ride.  That should be no problem at all.	2002-11-20
1336803:US	53082946	R5T0IHKXFI61P	1850282145	731845029	The Book of the Dragon	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Keeping Things in Scale	One does not read fantasy for forty years without developing a good working knowledge of the various aspects of dragonology.  There are countless theories that attempt to explain why the image of the dragon is so endemic, but I prefer the simplest - once upon a time dragons walked the earth.  Not those wimpy prehistoric lizards, but serious, flying, magic using critters that finally left in disgust with the mess us humans have made of the world.<br />In an effort to clear up any confusion, Montse Sant has endeavored to create a compendium of dragon facts and fiction.  Sant almost succeeds.  Unfortunately, the author shows a decided propensity for making too many things up when the literature fails to come through.  Thus, we have a fiction about a fiction of all things.  This is not a book about dragons, but a book about Sant's vision of what dragons should be.  All very well if you happen to agree with Sant's ideas.  The author is a dragon apologist, who spends so much time chattering about how wonderful dragons are that we never really find out how terrible they are as well.<br />This thin tidbit is lavishly illustrated by Ciruelo Cabral.  He is capable of a variety of styles, which keeps the work from feeling repetitious.  Some of the work is quite good, and the rest is more than satisfactory.  Indeed, I like the imaginative artwork more than I like the prose.  Ciruelo seems to have a solider idea of the draconic nature than Sant does.  There is enough here to fire the imagination of even the most mundane of dragon lovers, although it still leaves me a bit dissatisfied.	2002-11-17
1339303:US	53082946	R3010SL2MENPBM	0500276307	491636426	Celtic Design: Knotwork - The Secret Method of the Scribes	Books	5	17	18	N	N	&quot;What a tangled web we weave&quot;	Several years ago I was having a guitar made and wanted to use a Celtic theme for some of the inlay work.  As usual, I discovered that this was a more complicated task than I had originally thought.  Not all places on a guitar are equal, and trying to find a set of ideas that would work as a whole is almost as challenging as designing an illuminated manuscript page.<br />I my frantic search through the catalogs for books that provided more than pretty pictures, I stumbled across several volumes by Aidan Meehan, including this one on knotwork.  Meehan's focus is as much on design as it is on imitation, which was perfect for what I was trying to do.  The book is done in clean legible calligraphy with countless illustrations of both technique and results, making it a bit of an artwork itself.<br />Whether 'secret' or not, Meehan presents knots, their creation, and use in fine and methodical detail.  He works through some important knots, then turns to panel design, plaitwork and spiral knots.  Probably much more than I will ever need, but making this a valuable resource for the artist and the historian.	2002-11-15
1340781:US	53082946	R3SQ39OU28HRUR	0765300451	903270654	A Coldness in the Blood	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Crocodile Tears	Fred Saberhagen is a remarkably consistent author.  And while he is certainly a prolific author, he rarely pushes a book out too soon just to feed his bank account.  Two of the many reasons why an alarming amount of my shelf space is dedicated to his work.  For people of my generation, he is most noted for the Berserker series, and for his string of novels about Dracula and his relations with Mina Harker and her descendents.  This has been a dry season for vampire lovers, so there was much evil cackling and hand rubbing when I discovered that Saberhagen had finally written a new story.<br />Matthew Maule (AKA Vlad Tepes AKA Dracula) currently maintains an aerie in Chicago which he uses as his principal residence.  His 'nephew,' Andy Keogh is instructing the old vampire in the intricacies of websites when they are interrupted by the sudden appearance of Dickon, the world's most cowardly Nosferatu, and his friend Tamarack.  Dickon is convinced that someone is out to kill him.  For a change, his convictions seem justified.  Dickon's residence has just been firebombed, and he, his friend, and a small white statue have come to beg Maule's protection.  Shortly thereafter, Dickon is gone, Tamarck is spectacularly dead, the statue is dust, and neither Maule nor Andy has a clue what hit them.<br />Dracula is furious that his lair could be invaded and his nephew involved.  His investigations reveal that half the world seems to be in pursuit of six Egyptian statues (now down to five), one of which has the Philosopher's Stone in it.  Among the pursuers is a reborn crocodile creature named Sobek, whose most irritating trait is that he refuses to take the vampire seriously.  With five hidden statues, a dozen or so nefarious hunters, a very angry vampire and a host of his 'breather' friends, this is a classic chase setup, and that is exactly what Saberhagen delivers.<br />This is not Saberhagen's best, but it is so far ahead of the rest of this year's efforts to make it a grand treat.  There is no lack of action, but the characters are a bit thin.  The author takes it for granted that we have read enough of the series that we won't need much character development, and so errs on the side of sparseness.  Andy, who is new, certainly needs much more time, as does Dolores Flamel, daughter of a mage, who plays an extended part.  Even so, Saberhagen's trademark style delivers both depth and complexity while making vampires entirely believable.  By all means, take the time to enjoy 'A Coldness in the Blood.'eat.  There is no lack of action, but the characters are a bit thin.  The author takes it for granted that we have read enough of the series that we won't need much character development, and so errs on the side of sparseness.  Andy, who is new, certainly needs much more time, as does Dolores Flamel, daughter of a mage, who plays an extended part.  Even so, Saberhagen's trademark style delivers both depth and complexity while making vampires entirely believable.  By all means, take the time to enjoy 'A Coldness in the Blood.'	2002-11-14
1342418:US	53082946	R3N0BPT5ZDRUPE	0786014717	421915272	Resurrection (The Vampire Legacy, #6)	Books	3	14	16	N	Y	Vampire Sociology	The past century has wrought a significant change in the old, reliable vampire genre.  In those glorious old days, women were women, men were men, and vampires were... the bad guys.  Now, vampires have feelings, try to develop functional relationships, and harbor deep doubts about their ethical position.  In short, they do everything but have therapists, and, Lord knows, some of them should do exactly that.  Humans, on the other hand, are the villains half the time, and often are just portable blood supplies that dot the backdrops.<br />One of the inventions of this shift of sympathy from the victim to the predator is the creation of a completely new genre of vampire story, one that I call vampire politics (or vampire sociology if you need a more generic title).  As Karen Taylor's latest demonstrates, the story is completely about the interoperations and machinations of various groups of supernatural creatures, almost out of context with the world in which the author proposes they live.  On of the other things 'Resurrection' demonstrates is that unless this is done very well, it would be better if it had not been attempted.<br />Deirdre Griffin has been around as a vampire for some six moderately successful volumes.  She has stopped several monstrous killers, taking a vampire husband, and endured a certain amount of family problems.  Until now, the stories have been marked by strong plots and a variety of interesting characters, vampire and human.  Now hunted across the world by a mysterious group known as The Others, Deirdre and Mike are in a struggle for their very existence.  Somehow, Deirdre has been infected with a poison that is gradually erasing her memories, turning her into an empty vessel living only in the moment.<br />What should have become a fast-paced race against time to solve the threat of The Others and recover Deirdre's essence turns into a series of pat moves across the narrow stage of a tiny English town where the most momentous events seem to happen more off camera than at center stage.  In truth, the book has fewer settings than the average off Broadway play.  Coupled with a lack of character development (Deirdre is degenerating and everyone else is staying the same) this results in a book that is missing some important ingredients for success.  This explains its lackluster sales performance.<br />It is clearly Taylor's intent to write a sequel, since almost every story arc is left unfinished.  Hopefully, some of the tedium of this volume is due to the necessity for setting the stage upon which more exciting events will play.  I am giving this book three stars because I do not want to sell short an otherwise successful author without seeing where she is going with the entire effort.  But unless you are entranced by vampire stories where the most exciting event is the death if a dog (and Deirdre's money worries) be warned that you may find this far less satisfactory than other efforts.appen more off camera than at center stage.  In truth, the book has fewer settings than the average off Broadway play.  Coupled with a lack of character development (Deirdre is degenerating and everyone else is staying the same) this results in a book that is missing some important ingredients for success.  This explains its lackluster sales performance.<br />It is clearly Taylor's intent to write a sequel, since almost every story arc is left unfinished.  Hopefully, some of the tedium of this volume is due to the necessity for setting the stage upon which more exciting events will play.  I am giving this book three stars because I do not want to sell short an otherwise successful author without seeing where she is going with the entire effort.  But unless you are entranced by vampire stories where the most exciting event is the death if a dog (and Deirdre's money worries) be warned that you may find this far less satisfactory than other efforts.	2002-11-12
1344204:US	53082946	R1AQQJ0V9CGFG7	0684859734	662513874	Grave Secrets: A Novel (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Grave Red Herrings	The bulk of the story is set in Guatemala, where Temperance Brennan is helping sort out the 20-year-old remains of the massacre of a village of indigenous Aztecs.  Because members of the ruling government were involved in the bloody killings of women and children, the forensic anthropologist's work is frowned upon, and gunmen attack two members of the excavation and identification team.  While sorting out this ugly reminder of the past, Temperance is asked by the local police to help in the investigation of a body found in a septic tank.  On thing leads to another, and soon Brennan cannot decide if she is dealing with a serial killer or someone more politically motivated.<br />A red herring is a writing device intended to appear as if it were a clue, but which, in fact, is really just a distraction that keeps the reader from jumping to the right conclusion.  When used in moderation, it is an adroit tactic that can add interest and suspense.  When used to excess, it leaves the reader feeling tricked as the plot seems to dissolve away.  'Grave Secrets' is right at the limit, and perhaps somewhat beyond it.  It would be giving away too much to list the herrings, but you will have to accept my assurances that there are many layers of literary subterfuge, few of which contribute materially to the story.<br />The book isn't a failure, but it is certainly not a wholehearted success.  When the story is over, and the last 'cute' trick is played, one wonders what will happen to the series from this point onwards.  Reichs hints loudly that changes are coming, but I fear that another talented writer is going to fall victim to what I call Editor's Disease, where the author is gradually convinced to make become a formula writer - one dollop of blood, two dollops of sex, etc., etc.  Hopefully this is a temporary aberration and not a portent of things to come.	2002-11-11
1346796:US	53082946	REO5BUYGDCJ5K	0312978863	196861741	Murder with Puffins (Meg Langslow Mysteries)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	One Puffin Too Many	In general, I am not a fan of the 'cozy' mystery story. No offense intended, but my taste runs to dark fiction, horror, and other equally bleak genre.  However, every once in a while, an uncontrollable fit comes over me, and only the lighter side of the mystery world will do. The 'cozy' is my way of escaping my normal fare without turning my back on murder and mayhem.  No doubt a form of having my cake and eating it too.  In pursuit of these sudden urges, I recently discovered Donna Andrew's stories about Meg Langslow and her romantic partner Michael Waterston, and have been keeping 'Murder with Puffins' on hand for just such an emergency.<br />Meg and Michael are also trying to escape, in their case they are trying to get away from their charming but eccentric families and friends.  Meg takes advantage of a standing offer and heads off with Michael to Monhegan, a semi-civilized island off the coast of Maine.  What they did not count on was finding that the entire Langslow clan has independently arrived at the same idea.  Upon arriving on the island, Meg discovers that she has fled the frying pan for the fire.<br />True to form, in the middle of a chaos concocted of a mass of birdwatchers, an equal number of Langslows, and a hurricane, the most unpopular person on the island dies in mysterious (and inconvenient) circumstances.  Since one of the possible suspects is Meg's father, our two intrepid vacationers thrust themselves hip deep in an investigation that leads them to every quirk and secret Monhegan contains.  Nor does it help that the weather has made communication with the outside world impossible.<br />One of Andrew's admirable traits it that all her characters seem to have some level of native intelligence.  They may be weird, suspicious or inexplicable, but they generally can indulge in repartee and make the occasional quip.  Even the lesser lights are not completely dim.  Thus, her stories are comedies of manners, not simple burlesques.  Her plots move along lightly, and she manages to avoid the sins of over-writing.  All of which creates a very pleasant entertainment, and explains why the author has enjoyed immediate acceptance and received several notable awards.<br />Whether you are addicted to this genre, or are, like me, an occasional visitor, you will find this series excellent reading.  While 'Murder with Puffins' will not suffer from being read out of order (it is the second in the series), I still think it best to start at the beginning with 'Murder with Peacocks.'  Take my advice and read them all.ng lightly, and she manages to avoid the sins of over-writing.  All of which creates a very pleasant entertainment, and explains why the author has enjoyed immediate acceptance and received several notable awards.<br />Whether you are addicted to this genre, or are, like me, an occasional visitor, you will find this series excellent reading.  While 'Murder with Puffins' will not suffer from being read out of order (it is the second in the series), I still think it best to start at the beginning with 'Murder with Peacocks.'  Take my advice and read them all.	2002-11-09
1350230:US	53082946	RJS6KX450YRQL	1569714916	277298217	Angel: Surrogates	Books	5	0	0	N	N	From the Beginning	The opening story of the Angel comic series was a three part story that was actually in production before the first episode of the Angel television series has been filmed.  'Surrogates' sported a Christopher Golden as writer, pencil and ink work by Christian Zanier and Andy Owens, and covers by Jeff Matsuda and Jon Sibal.  The result remains one of the best efforts in the Angel series.<br />One of Doyle's visionary moments sends Angel to the home of Rita Carlson.  This Rita and her husband were clients of an infertility clinic and were happily expecting when a sudden premature birth cost Rita the child.  Note her husband has disappeared as well.  When Angel investigates, he narrowly misses a fatal sunburn and discovers that an ancient evil is seeking to perpetuate itself.  Cordy and Doyle provide vital aids, but it is Angel who must stop the threat.<br />Golden takes a few liberties with mythology, but the result is a complex and interesting story that reminds us that the bad guys have their reasons too.  Zanier's artwork has a nice retro touch that that gives the graphics the appropriate noir touch.  Coupled with his sense of composition and scene setting, the artwork is as satisfying as the story.  All of this adds up to one of the best trade paperbacks done of the Angel comics, and a treat for all fans of the broody one.	2002-11-06
1350958:US	53082946	R55I1BJHUUOFL	034543904X	508246365	The Shadows of God (The Age of Unreason, Book 4)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Design of the Apocalypse	Nothing makes a series more frustrating for a reader than extended delays between volumes.  Unfortunately for me, not only was J. Gregory Keyes a long time in issuing this last volume in the 'Age of Unreason Series,' marketing for it was so poor that it was a year before I actually found it, and even longer until I finally started to read it.  Given the scope of the series, this nearly caused me do decide not to read it.<br /><br />The key of the problem is that the cast of characters is immense, and seems to include everyone of note in Europe and North America from Isaac Newton and Ben Franklin to Tsar Peter the Great.  At the beginning of 'The Shadows of God' Keyes spends about 40 pages re-introducing his characters.  Before I gave up counting he had mentioned thirty major characters and a host of lesser.  Moreover, while diligent in the matter of name-dropping, Keyes makes no effort to provide continuity between this volume and its predecessor.<br /><br />As such, it was a while before I remembered that Keyes had Newton discover the existence of the Malakim, angels who intersected with the human world and whose powers could be harnessed.  As he and his student Ben Franklin move across Europe, great powers are set in motion, eventually leading to London's utter destruction by an aimed meteor, and a Russian attempt to conquer the world.  With Europe in tatters, the action shifts to the new world, where men battle men and Malakim, and everyone who can tries to destroy their enemies and take the earth for their own.<br /><br />In North America, invading armies of the Malakim inspired Sun Boy and James Stuart, pretender to the English Throne prepare to overwhelm the indigenous races and colonists from New England to New France.  Ben Franklin is the ringleader in for those who oppose the Malakim as he tries to deal with overpowering magic, traitors on every side, and the rulers of New France, Sweden and Russia.  With his family life in a shambles, and his imagination stretched to its limits Franklin must prepare to fight a battle that truly is the apocalypse.<br /><br />This is primarily alternate history, based on the thesis that Newton's discoveries were of the laws of magic rather than those of science.  Misled into thinking that the Malakim were harmless, Newton did not realize that these were the fallen angels, stranded on earth by God, and that many of them fiercely desire the end of man.  The fascination of a new scientific system, and Keyes' great writing are what keep the series moving, and this volume is no exception, despite the slow start.<br /><br />The book probes the possibility of a universe based on and entirely different meta-narrative and the effects of that world on those that people it.  It also questions the significance of good and evil and God's place in the entirety of corruption.  Keyes created a high action plot while taking the time to investigate philosophical and emotional considerations.  In the end, I found the story very satisfying, but be warned that 'The Shadows of God' would be nearly unreadable for someone who has not read the first three volumes.  It is unfortunate that Keyes will probably never get the recognition he deserves for this work of science fantasy.  If you have the opportunity and the time, you will find the series well worth reading.ranklin must prepare to fight a battle that truly is the apocalypse.    This is primarily alternate history, based on the thesis that Newton's discoveries were of the laws of magic rather than those of science.  Misled into thinking that the Malakim were harmless, Newton did not realize that these were the fallen angels, stranded on earth by God, and that many of them fiercely desire the end of man.  The fascination of a new scientific system, and Keyes' great writing are what keep the series moving, and this volume is no exception, despite the slow start.    The book probes the possibility of a universe based on and entirely different meta-narrative and the effects of that world on those that people it.  It also questions the significance of good and evil and God's place in the entirety of corruption.  Keyes created a high action plot while taking the time to investigate philosophical and emotional considerations.  In the end, I found the story very satisfying, but be warned that 'The Shadows of God' would be nearly unreadable for someone who has not read the first three volumes.  It is unfortunate that Keyes will probably never get the recognition he deserves for this work of science fantasy.  If you have the opportunity and the time, you will find the series well worth reading.	2002-11-05
1353660:US	53082946	RD89LMJFMIKSN	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	The Way of the Warrior is Death	Elvis Cole is a wisecracking private investigator who likes Falstaff beer, Mickey Mouse, and can tell you exactly which designer made the clothes and accessories the villains wear.  A Viet Nam vet who came back determined to preserve what was left of his childhood, a man with a strong hero complex, and, when need be, a stone killer.  Now he is working a case for financier Bradley Warren, trying to find a stolen copy of the Hagakure, the ancient Japanese code of behavior for the Samurai.<br />Elvis' clue gathering style is to keep stirring the pot of likely sources and suspects until something floats to the top.  This time what comes up is trouble.  Warren's family receives several threats, which he chooses to ignore.  Suddenly the worst happens and Mimi Warren is kidnapped, leaving no trace.  Incensed, Warren fires Cole and the detective decides to continue the case on his own.  He promised Mimi he would protect her, and he's not about to let the Yakuza of two countries get in his way.<br />Robert Crais' tactic is to lure the reader in with Elvis Cole's humorous attitude and hard-boiled attitude, and then follow through with a series of severe hammer blows.  Even when you know that there is a nightmare waiting to happen, its onset is a shock.  Perhaps this is formula writing, but few authors can shift gears as smoothly as Crais can.  One moment you are listening in on some sarcastic dialog between Cole and his partner Joe Pike, the next minute they are dealing out badness - and you are liking it.<br />In addition, Crais' characters are never one sided.  If anything, they defy the common stereotypes.  Cole and Pike don't simply hunt villains and right wrongs; they hold intelligent conversations and understand the issues they must deal with.  Good plot, great characters and a fine eye for detail makes 'Stalking the Angel' a memorable story.  One that will drive you back to the bookshelves looking for more.	2002-11-03
1356463:US	53082946	R4OKRSFQWEOXW	0596002831	783459499	Java in a Nutshell, Fourth Edition	Books	3	30	30	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For...	Nothing makes the importance of understanding exactly what you are looking for as obvious as the travail of picking the right technical book from the usual host on a particular subject.  And no subject seems to underscore this more than that of the Java language.  I can limp along adequately in Java, after several corporate efforts to get it drilled into my skull, but I'm past the age where perfect recall is anything else but wishful thinking.  And Java, which is more an architecture than it is a language, puts high demand on knowledge retention abilities.<br />Thus, I recently found myself searching for a language/object/method reference that is useful when reading and writing code, but does not require two briefcases to carry around.  In those circumstances anything that says 'nutshell' is going to get my attention.  Since I wasn't looking for long, flowing dissertations on syntax or object use, this book seemed exactly what I wanted.  And it is, for the most part.  There are about 300 pages of tiny print on Java, its syntax, environment, and tools.  Then comes 600 pages of reference on objects and methods, organized (somewhat) by package.  In general, if you can find it, and you already have a clue of why you should look for it, the book does just what I wanted.<br />The flaw, however, is in the finding.  Indexing and organization is best described as adequate.  But browsing is a literal impossibility.  Under no circumstances should you buy this book if you are looking for a learning tool.  It is at its best when you need to be reminded about something, not when you are looking for a way to actually do something.<br />I didn't expect to find anything on J2EE in the book, and sure enough, there isn't.  But I found the lack of information on the AWT and Swing irritating.  I admit that it says right on the back cover (in tiny print) that I need 'Java Foundation Classes in a Nutshell' if those are also of interest.  Of course they are if you are writing an application that needs more than a command line interface.  Left up to me I would have sacrificed some of the more obscure information for 50 or so pages on the AWT.  Or even put up with a book with 100 extra pages.  As it is I still need ten pounds of paperbacks to feel like I have sufficient reference material.<br />Still, the book of professionally done, brooks no nonsense, and does precisely what it says it does.  Which is a small miracle in today's technology business.  I certain bear a certain amount of responsibility for not getting something that is precisely what I wanted, but I use this every day, and generally, I get exactly what I need.ion that needs more than a command line interface.  Left up to me I would have sacrificed some of the more obscure information for 50 or so pages on the AWT.  Or even put up with a book with 100 extra pages.  As it is I still need ten pounds of paperbacks to feel like I have sufficient reference material.<br />Still, the book of professionally done, brooks no nonsense, and does precisely what it says it does.  Which is a small miracle in today's technology business.  I certain bear a certain amount of responsibility for not getting something that is precisely what I wanted, but I use this every day, and generally, I get exactly what I need.	2002-10-31
1358396:US	53082946	R2423SF08PW4LX	0451202767	434717564	Straight on 'Til Morning (Signet Horror)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A Subtle Sense of Loss	Being thirteen - almost fourteen - has its own special anguish.  You know more than you should, you want more than you can have, and nothing quite makes sense.  Such was the life of Kevin Murphy, caught in the long summer before maturity.  Falling out of love one day and back in love the next.  This time with his best friend Nicole French.  Nikki is older, but not particularly wiser.  Compulsively drawn to high-risk boyfriends, she can care for Kevin, rely on him, but never love him in the way he wants.<br />What hurts Kevin the most is that Nikki has fallen for a boy that Kevin knows is extreme bad news.  Peter Starling first ran into Kevin and his friends on a day in the woods.  What started out as and idyllic party suddenly became a near nightmare, and Kevin will never forget Pete's menacing look.  Suddenly Nikki is gone along with Peter - Kevin's last sight of her was as she flew across the sky with Peter and his cronies.  Kevin's determination to save her will lead him and his close friends over a boundary that humans are not to pass, and suddenly the teenager's life is filled with horror.<br />Author Christopher Golden makes it clear in his author's note that this tale is a fantasy remembrance of a part of his childhood.  We are left to decide which pieces are imagination and which were real, but the basic theme of love gained and then lost is universal to all possible worlds.  Underneath the sometimes frightening and tragic written story is a sense of a deeper tragedy - that of decisions never made and opportunities lost.  In the course of a short novel space summer ends and the cold of mid-winter suddenly begins.<br />Golden's writing is a combination of fact pacing and almost elegiac musings on the changing hare of a boy.  I do not know of anything else he has written that has so much running just beneath the surface.  Speaking non-technically, it is a moving, thought-provoking story, one that will remain in memory for a time.  Technically, \\"Straight on 'til Morning\\" begins slowly.  So much time is spent building the characters and setting the scene that it seems there is hardly the time to bring the story home.  This is one case where I feel the book is just too short for what it attempts to do.  But this is far better than being too long.  This is still one of Golden's best effort, and is clearly a book he needed to write.l Morning\\" begins slowly.  So much time is spent building the characters and setting the scene that it seems there is hardly the time to bring the story home.  This is one case where I feel the book is just too short for what it attempts to do.  But this is far better than being too long.  This is still one of Golden's best effort, and is clearly a book he needed to write.	2002-10-30
1359996:US	53082946	R17TQ36HPUPUB3	0743427823	189838887	Angel: Endangered Species	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Hunted into Extinction	For Buffy and Angel fans, this year has been a bit lackluster.  While I couldn't point to any particular book and say that it was a total flop, nothing comes to mind as really outstanding.  Part of the blame no doubt rests with the changes both television series have gone through.  It says much that Dark Horse has decided to shift the BTVS comic series to Buffy before Sunnydale.  I cannot say that I am sympathetic, but I do understand.<br />The best of the Buffy books this year is Chris Golden's 'Wisdom of War.'  Andy the politest thing one could say about the Angel series this year is that there was nothing one could identify as 'the best.'  Now, Nancy Holder and Jeff Mariotte have come to the rescue with their latest, 'Endangered Species.'<br />The book's plot is something of a tag team action story.  There are three teams of bad guys.  The first is Marianna Escobar a vampire who runs an elite hunting island and has a plan for making Faith the next animal on the agenda.  Next up is Benedicta, made by Drusilla and every bit as crazy.  She and her nasty druid sidekick want to raise the original vampire and have little super vampires by it.  And no one should leave out Wolfram and Hart, who manage to collect fees from everyone while working their own agenda.<br />On the good side is the regular team, plus the Host, Fred, and Faith.  New faces are Chaz Escobar - the vampire's estranged husband, and Lohiau, an Hawaiian revolutionary and Kahuna.  Between kidnappings and holdups, the good guys are every bit as fragmented as their enemies, as everyone careens around trying to assemble the components of a spell that will either destroy all vampires or end the unlives of vampires everywhere.<br />This is obviously a story heavy on the action and light on character depth and angst, but it is just what the doctor ordered.  Even so, Faith gets a lot of attention and Fred makes her first major appearance in an Angel novel.  Both characters are handled honestly, although I think Fred's weaknesses are overplayed.  So, lots of action, decent character development, and tight, effective writing.  Making this the season's must read for Angel fans.nk Fred's weaknesses are overplayed.  So, lots of action, decent character development, and tight, effective writing.  Making this the season's must read for Angel fans.	2002-10-28
1362005:US	53082946	R5OOTK15RWQW1	1569715475	100231684	Angel: Hunting Ground	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Now Starring...	This trade paperback contains two stories: 'Hunting Ground,' which ran in issues 153 thru 155 of Dark Horse Presents, and 'Beneath the Surface,' which appeared in issues 8 and 9 of Angel.  Both stories are by Chris Golden and Tom Sniegoski.<br />In 'Hunting Ground,' Cordelia finally gets a part in a film.  Not just a bit part, but a starring role as one of a team of treasure hunters who are searching for the Helm of Haraxis.  Deep in the woods things suddenly start to go wrong.  Suddenly real life becomes too much like a horror film and Cordelia is desperate for Angel's aid.<br />'Beneath the Surface' finds Detective Kate Lockley in the middle of a series of killings that have all occurred close to underground accesses that Angel also uses.  His investigations turn up a suspicious demon, but the case gets complicated when Kate decides to search the sewers herself.  Worse, topping her list of suspects is the broody vampire himself.<br />Typical of Dark Horse Presents stories, which are originally done without color, the illustration for 'Hunting Ground' (done by Brian Horton and Paul Lee) is simplistic and two-dimensional.  The coloring, which was added as an afterthought is also too flat.  In contrast, Eric Powell's work on 'Beneath the Surface' is much more alive and the colors show much more modeling and shading.  Even so, this is a case where both stories are much better than their graphic presentation.	2002-10-27
1362282:US	53082946	R24DC2X52VT3BZ	0441009840	71624158	Deceptions (Laws of the Blood, Book 4)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	For Each City there is One Enforcer....	Wherever there are vampires, there must be laws, otherwise humanity's predators would be revealed, and become prey themselves.  In Susan Sizemore's world, the laws are made by the Council, and a group of specialized vampires called hunters exists to enforce their dictates.  Not a very democratic system, but one that has stood the test of time.  More to the point, is has stood the test of four volumes in a successful series.<br />Each volume tells a story about a particular enforcer,  Char McCarin in Seattle, Selim in Los Angeles, Istvan the roamer, and now Olympias in Washington, D.C.  Once the wife of Philip of Macedonia, she has had 2,000 years to hone her political and power skills, rising to become the chief enforcer for the United States.  In her concerns for the maintenance of the Law everywhere she has forgotten to apply it equally at home.  Her laxity has permitted the local vampire nests to make their own rules, and now that she is determined to bring things back under control, rebellion is about to break out.<br />It does not help that she has selected a possible companion that another vampire wants, or that someone in the nests is plotting to bring her down.  And what will she do with another vampire who has requested permission to die?  Olympias has no choice but to burden her slaves with too much responsibility and now she must deal with the consequences.  The ensuing crisis will take all her political and fighting skills.<br />Sizemore is one of the few writers who can write about vampire politics without becoming distractingly boring.  Part of this is the mystique of the enforcers, a specialized breed that prefers to feed on the hearts of other vampires.  Another part is that her characters, despite the possession of immortality and superhuman powers behave like real people.  No overblown romanticism or new goth world order here, but interesting personalities dealing with life among the pointy-toothed.<br />The writing shows good pacing, and while not sparse does not dwell too long over any particular facet.  Violence is sudden, horrific, and then over with.  Much time has been spent thinking through the logic of this world, and it rings true even when it crosses over to the fantastic.  The overall effect is a refreshing shift from more stereotyped vampire fiction.  If such existed, I would call the 'Laws of the Blood' series vampire fiction for vampires.  While the individual novels do occasionally intertwine all can stand independently, so you may begin with any volume you please.sparse does not dwell too long over any particular facet.  Violence is sudden, horrific, and then over with.  Much time has been spent thinking through the logic of this world, and it rings true even when it crosses over to the fantastic.  The overall effect is a refreshing shift from more stereotyped vampire fiction.  If such existed, I would call the 'Laws of the Blood' series vampire fiction for vampires.  While the individual novels do occasionally intertwine all can stand independently, so you may begin with any volume you please.	2002-10-27
1363409:US	53082946	R36Z0PTFWVWAIQ	0743400453	253668819	Tales of the Slayer, Volume 1 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A Full House	Writing a 'Slayer' story that does not include Buffy is a considerable challenge.  Lacking the extra magic that our favorite Slayer and her team provide, the writer has to create a workable tale in a very short time period.  The tale cannot simply be a good story about a young woman who kills vampires; it must also stay true to Joss Whedon's conceptual framework without being formulaic.  This is an almost impossible job to do perfectly, so most attempts have some inherent flaw.<br />The seven tales compiled here are no exception to this problem.  While I found several quite interesting, only a couple managed to bring their heroines completely to life and none completely escaped a grim fascination with the dark side of the Slayer mythos.  For me, one of the things that makes Buffy a cut above most fictional characters is her acceptance of the bleak future that faces a Slayer and her determination to rise above it.  In other words, she doesn't give in to the tragic side of the job.  Too many of the Slayers here are trapped in the tragedy and never have a chance to win their way out.<br />My favorite story is 'Mornglom Dreaming' about Mollie Prater, set in the Kentucky countryside.  Mollie, soon to be married, suddenly comes into her heritage and faces a demon that compulsively turns celebrations into funerals.  Mollie's attitude makes her a winner despite the trauma of her new job.  Another interesting story is 'Unholy Madness,' which is the story of Marie-Christine Du Lac, a member of the court just before the French Revolution.  What is remarkable here is the shallow and elitist role that the Watcher's Council forced on the Slayers in a time of great social oppression.  Only slowly does Marie-Christine realize that not all vampires wear fangs.<br />The other tales are all acceptably written, but most lack the spark that makes a tale more than an example of a very limited genre.  My own perception is that the trade paperback 'Tales of the Slayers,' is really more successful.  If for no other reason than the creation of Fray, who went on to star in a comic series of her own.  No surprise, Fray is another Joss Whedon creation, and demonstrates that what makes a Slayer great is her ability to dance on the line between horror and hope.<br />While the writing here is uneven, it is never poor, and many of the author's demonstrate an excellent grasp of historical periods and their impact on Slayer and Watcher behavior.  Therefore, the book is hardly a failure, even if it isn't a complete success.  Personally, I would have likes to see more variation in development and outcome.  In any case, this is a required addition to the shelves of Slayer Watchers everywhere as a memorial to those who were chosen.cessful.  If for no other reason than the creation of Fray, who went on to star in a comic series of her own.  No surprise, Fray is another Joss Whedon creation, and demonstrates that what makes a Slayer great is her ability to dance on the line between horror and hope.<br />While the writing here is uneven, it is never poor, and many of the author's demonstrate an excellent grasp of historical periods and their impact on Slayer and Watcher behavior.  Therefore, the book is hardly a failure, even if it isn't a complete success.  Personally, I would have likes to see more variation in development and outcome.  In any case, this is a required addition to the shelves of Slayer Watchers everywhere as a memorial to those who were chosen.	2002-10-25
1367254:US	53082946	R2KJO4VA7NSPAN	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	5	58	64	N	Y	Too Many Ghosts	I bought 'City of Bones' when it first came out, but put off reading it for a bit. The last couple of Connelly's novels about Detective Harry Bosch seemed a bit off pace, so I was waiting for a tolerant moment. Once I started reading I discovered that my premonitions were wrong, and that this was going to be a high water mark in the eight volume series.<br />Michael Connelly has a trick of creating an introspective mood without actually making his characters become solipsistic, and 'City of Bones' at its deepest level is about Harry Bosch coming to grips with his own beliefs and needs. This subtext threads its way through a case involving the 20-year-old corpse of a young boy found buried in a small plot of woods. Cases this old are rarely soluble, but somehow just enough information keeps coming to the surface to keep Bosch and his partner, Jerry Edgar, working away at the case. Gradually Bosch becomes fixated on the case as its ramifications begin to have echoes in his own life.<br />One of the key factors in Bosch's character development is a new relationship with rookie police officer Julia Brasher. She is the officer on duty at the murder site, and is drawn into the investigation. This relationship becomes the model for all the other relationships in the book; especially those Bosch has with his partner and his work. In the end it triggers something unexpected in the older detective, and will eventually cause him to make some surprising decisions.<br />Beyond the character level, the plot is tightly drawn and well paced. Generally, a story that turns on forensic police procedure is interesting rather than exciting, but Connelly has goes to great lengths to prove that this does not have to be the case. There is a surfeit of plot twists and the high emotional pitch will keep the reader on tenterhooks - a delightful form of torture, too rarely experienced in the present.<br />Obviously, I enjoyed the book. I found myself intentionally slowing down my reading speed in order to extend my pleasure with a writer whose minimalist style always seems to have more to say than the efforts of wordier contemporaries. This is a milestone in the Harry Bosch series, but hopefully not its last, shining moment.ed in order to extend my pleasure with a writer whose minimalist style always seems to have more to say than the efforts of wordier contemporaries. This is a milestone in the Harry Bosch series, but hopefully not its last, shining moment.	2002-10-22
1369264:US	53082946	R1YRZKWB71ONWV	156971357X	799203809	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 3: Dreamsong	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	How is Love from This to Rise Again...	Volume three in the 'Blade of the Immortal' series is unusual on several accounts.  While most of the series focuses entirely on the adventures of Rin and Manji, her immortal bodyguard, 'Dreamsong' shifts the focus onto several of their opponents.  Especially Makie Otono-Tachibana, a brilliant geisha, the mistress of Kagehisa Anotsu, and possibly, Japan's greatest master of the sword.  As part of this, we will also lean further into the personality of Kagehisa himself, the leader of the weaponry school that killed Rin's parents.<br />Manji, perhaps frustrated by traveling with a beautiful young woman, allows himself to be picked up by a street prostitute and suddenly finds himself confronted with a deadly swordswoman.  It is Makie, send by Anotsu to stop the immortal swordsman.  Unexpectedly, Makie seems unable to make a fatal strike.  Manji, disgusted leaves her alive and defeated, even though he knows there will be a rematch.<br />The story of why Makie failed that attempt is a complex weaving of her own life as a child, growing up to become a prostitute and then a geisha, and her experiences with Kagehisa Anotsu, whom she has known from childhood.  Makie, daughter of a swordswoman, and the cause of her brother's death, is torn between her talents and her dreams.  Anotsu owes her his life, but has taken control of hers in a twisted form of repayment.  Making a graceful singer and poet into a killer.<br />Of course, Makie's struggle reflects that of Rin, who has sworn to revenge her parents.  Young Rin, no match for Makie's beauty or sword skills is jealous, but in the end, it is her own inner struggle with fate that brings home the truth to Makie.  For all the violence that is part of this tale, Hiroaki Samura gives is a grace of word and imagery that recall some of the greatest of Japanese writing.  If you read no other in this series, read 'Dreamsong.'	2002-10-21
1369623:US	53082946	R1A8VECTGA6APG	1569715025	939901270	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 1: Assassin's Road	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	The Road to Ronin	Like many, I picked up on this manga because I have seen some of the films.  These are the archetype of a whole genre of violent historical samurai films set during Japan's Edo period, when the Shogun rules the country.  What makes the Lone Wolf tales unique is that his 3-year-old son accompanies the wandering Samurai.  Daigoro is no ordinary child, but an active accomplice in his father's work as an assassin.  Whether riding in his armed baby carriage, or holding onto his father's back in the middle of a battle, the boy is as capable of surprise moves as is his deadly father.<br />In reading you will find that the episodes are loosely strung, almost in no particular order.  Ogami Itto and Daigoro wander the Japanese countryside under a sign that reads 'Son for hire, sword for hire.'  Not exactly heroes, they have a knack for turning the tasks they undertake for the good.  The plots of the individual stories are surprisingly intricate and expose much about the character of life under the Shogun.  While it often seems that father and son are acting independently to correct some perceived imbalance, it gradually becomes clear that Itto served as one of the Shogun's secret assassins for some 27 years before breaking with the Shogun, and is Japan's deadliest swordsman.<br />Those of us who have seen the films will be a bit disoriented by the manga.  The illustrated series is the original from which the films drew ideas, and the two do not always respect each other's time relationships.  Unlike 'Blade of the Immortal,' another strong manga series set in the same time period, writer Kazuo Koike experiments more and feels no need to set everything in a strict order.  And he is satisfied to leave questions dangling in the reader's mind.  The artist for the series, Goseki Kojima works with a heavy pen in comparison to the work done 20 years later by Hiroaki Samura in Blade.  Partly, this is the result of the small format chosen by the manga.  Even so, his ability to capture the action of a sword fight and stretch out the tense moments in between is remarkable.<br />In the final analysis 'Lone Wolf and Cub' and 'Blade of the Immortal' defy comparison.  Each represents a high point in the development of the manga as a literary and artistic form.  Nor should this be an either or decision.  Readers will find much to praise in both.the action of a sword fight and stretch out the tense moments in between is remarkable.<br />In the final analysis 'Lone Wolf and Cub' and 'Blade of the Immortal' defy comparison.  Each represents a high point in the development of the manga as a literary and artistic form.  Nor should this be an either or decision.  Readers will find much to praise in both.	2002-10-21
1370389:US	53082946	R3L24KKA1S7ZXC	1569710813	237664456	Ghost in the Shell (v. 1)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Where does the Machine End?	First created in 1991, 'Ghost in the Shell' is Masamune Shirow's vision of a future world, complex and dysfunctional peopled by humans, robots and cyborgs.  Best known in this country as the Anime film of the same name, it has had an unexpected influence on manga, anime, and the world to come.  Like Phillip Dick's 'Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep,' is asks questions about the essence of life and the validity of a society where it is an artifact that can be installed instead of something innate.  The Film was my first sight of what anime was capable of, and this book was my first introduction to manga, the unique Japanese form of the graphic novel.<br />The action of the story centers on a security team led by Major Matoko Kusinagi.  Kusinagi, like almost all of her team, are highly modified humans, or highly humanized machines, depending on your viewpoint.  They are shells, biomechanical miracles, in which a human brain and spinal column have been places.  However, unless you see one of them being made, or notice their cable contact points, they seem utterly human.<br />The team investigates possible cases of government wrongdoing.  Their paths often bring them into contact with the less reputable side of human and cyborg traffic.  Shirow uses these contacts, robots in revolution, berserk cyborgs, illegal memory copying, etc., to gradually shift the story from hard science fiction to a semi-metaphysical deep dive into the significance of the information net and alternate life form possibilities.  The question, of course, is not just 'what is human?' but 'what is intelligent life?'  Where exactly is the boundary between the shell, whether it be bioengineered or flesh.<br />The last third of the book, which comprises most of the film, is Major Kusinagi's quest to bring down a 'hacker' called the puppeteer.  This goes awry in unexpected fashion and Kusinagi finds herself confronted by the impossible rather than the criminal.  What effect this has on her, and the possibilities is creates are Shirow's answers to his own questions.  Like the rest of the book before them, they raise as many issues as they resolve.<br />Masamune Shirow's imagination has built a finely detailed world.  To complete the picture the artist/writer provides countless notes and commentaries about his technology and society.  Unable to do this, the film simplified the plot to make it digestible.  While it succeeded, the reader will find that manga is much richer and engaging.  Given the longer format, Shirow is able to spend his time setting the scene, focusing on the interactions of the characters, and at exactly the right time, pulling the trigger.  Working in both color and black and white, his artwork is a mixture of high tech detailing and unembarrassed sensuality.<br />The manga and the subsequent film created a whole new era for the Japanese storybook.  For many people in the US such as me, 'Ghost in the Shell' is the anime production that made them fans.  The themes validated it as a literary form, and the images forced readers to acknowledge that manga was art rather than artifice.  Masamune set a standard for manga, which has rarely been surpassed.  If you are genuinely interested in understand this art form, 'Ghost in the Shell' is the place to start.ossibilities is creates are Shirow's answers to his own questions.  Like the rest of the book before them, they raise as many issues as they resolve.  <br />Masamune Shirow's imagination has built a finely detailed world.  To complete the picture the artist/writer provides countless notes and commentaries about his technology and society.  Unable to do this, the film simplified the plot to make it digestible.  While it succeeded, the reader will find that manga is much richer and engaging.  Given the longer format, Shirow is able to spend his time setting the scene, focusing on the interactions of the characters, and at exactly the right time, pulling the trigger.  Working in both color and black and white, his artwork is a mixture of high tech detailing and unembarrassed sensuality.<br />The manga and the subsequent film created a whole new era for the Japanese storybook.  For many people in the US such as me, 'Ghost in the Shell' is the anime production that made them fans.  The themes validated it as a literary form, and the images forced readers to acknowledge that manga was art rather than artifice.  Masamune set a standard for manga, which has rarely been surpassed.  If you are genuinely interested in understand this art form, 'Ghost in the Shell' is the place to start.	2002-10-20
1370674:US	53082946	R2F2TEXGECBDCQ	1569714754	444914701	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 5: Pale Reflections	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Will the Real Buffy Please...	During most of 1999, Dark Horse Comics pursued a single long story line with intermittent breaks.  In a sense, this was an imitation of the television show, with its combination of episodic tales and extended story arcs.  While this was a mixed success with the readers, it did produce its share of great moments, and established some basic principles for the series that have lasted for almost regular 50 issues and countless specials.<br />This trade paperback contains the last three episodes of the 'Bad Blood' story arc that consumed nine issues in total.  The force behind the series is the efforts of Selke, a horribly scarred vampire, to recover her looks, establish a power base, and to destroy Buffy.  Selke and her accomplice Dr. Flitter have found away to create an evil Buffy twin whose assignment is to track down her original and 'slay' her.<br />Of course, we know that Buffy will survive, but the clone's ability to anticipate Buffy's every move allows her to accomplish the impossible - leave Buffy for dead in the Sunnydale sewer and shop for clothes in the same night.  Buffy find help from an unexpected source and works her way to a final confrontation with Selke in the middle of the Sunnydale Mardi Gras celebration.  A final short story tells the story of a sorority initiation that nearly stomps the clock permanently.<br />These are probably the best three episodes of 'Bad Blood,' both in terms of writing and artwork.  Even so the long stretch of the comic book series works against it and it lacks the spark that a shorter series like 'The Blood of Carthage' can produce.  It is hardly a failure however.  I do suggest that the reader begin at the beginning with the first trade paperback, 'Bad Blood.'	2002-10-19
1371233:US	53082946	R2UALT85GUQIUL	0061020621	690753180	Reaper Man	Books	5	12	13	N	N	It's Time For A New Dance to Begin	Most Terry Pratchett fans are well acquainted with death, or rather, with DEATH.  Discworld's skeleton-with-a-scythe has bit parts in almost every volume, and starring roles in many.  But few of us have ever thought of what Pratchett's world would be like if a group of universal bureaucrats decided to hand him a golden hourglass and, politely but firmly, show him the door.  One thing we can count on though is that in Discworld, nothing ever goes as planned.<br /><br />The wizards of the Unseen University first notice the problem when Windle Poons fails to make it to the afterlife.  Instead, he finds himself back in his body, to the embarrassment of the entire faculty.  Evadne Cake the medium first notices when her crystal ball starts shouting.  Then a compost heap attacks Modo the gardener.  Screws keep unscrewing themselves and the entire city of Ankh-Morpork has a massive attack of poltergeistism.  And...  And...  There is just way too much living going on.<br /><br />Poons, thanks to a note pinned to the inside of his coffin, discovers a support group for the undead.  Not a very big one - Reg Shoe the Ghoul, Doreen and Arthur the not-quite-upscale vampires, Lupine the wereman, Schleppel the bogeyman, and a banshee so timid that it leaves notes for people (OOoooEeeeOooEeeeOOOeee).  Together and separately the Wizards, the undead, and Mrs. Cake set out to make sense of chaos.  Before chaos makes mincemeat of them.<br /><br />In the meantime, Death is pursuing his retirement.  Posing as an itinerant, he takes a job as a farmhand.  No matter that he is a 7-foot skeleton, no matter that he harvests hay one blade at a time.  People, he discovers, actually like him.  An unusual situation for someone whose name used to be Death.  It's Bill Door now and proud of it.<br /><br />This is classic Pratchett work.  He is a master at poking us in the eye, tickling our tummies, and warming our hearts, all at the same time.  Be prepared for an unending supply of perfectly atrocious puns (an alchemist is nearly killed by a sharp retort) and twisted sentences (people become werewolves by contracting genetics at an early age).  Be prepared to learn about the sex life of cities, why there is a Death of Rats but not a Death of Cats, and the folly of automated farm machinery.  Above all be prepared to laugh.<br /><br />[Five years later] I've been rereading Prachett's books in order, mostly out of a need to lighten my heart a bit, and I finally realized how strong a story this is.  Several of the novels before this have shown sparkles of greatness, but Reaper Man goes a step further -- it touches the heart with it's insight into what it means to be human and the preciousness of life, even in death.  Did I shed a tear when I first read it?  I don't remember.  But I did this time, and I'm not normally a teary sort.  This is the kind of story that makes you genuinely glad you like Terrey Pratchett.  So read Reaper Man, please.  It will work for you.illed by a sharp retort) and twisted sentences (people become werewolves by contracting genetics at an early age).  Be prepared to learn about the sex life of cities, why there is a Death of Rats but not a Death of Cats, and the folly of automated farm machinery.  Above all be prepared to laugh.    [Five years later] I've been rereading Prachett's books in order, mostly out of a need to lighten my heart a bit, and I finally realized how strong a story this is.  Several of the novels before this have shown sparkles of greatness, but Reaper Man goes a step further -- it touches the heart with it's insight into what it means to be human and the preciousness of life, even in death.  Did I shed a tear when I first read it?  I don't remember.  But I did this time, and I'm not normally a teary sort.  This is the kind of story that makes you genuinely glad you like Terrey Pratchett.  So read Reaper Man, please.  It will work for you.	2002-10-19
1371971:US	53082946	R3JOT7OX2OCA3D	1563895730	851220782	The Sandman: The Dream Hunters	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	The Realm of the Fox	I found this book while searching for Yoshitaka Amano's illustrations.  One of the most notable of living Japanese illustrators, he is still much under-represented in American publications.  This is truly a shame, for many are completely unaware of the flowing grace and color of his images.  He has a great breadth of style, subject and media, including theater design and stained glass work among his many credits.  He is equally at home doing echoes of old Japanese and Chinese prints as he is with bright colors and Impressionism.  This is part of what makes 'The Dream Hunters' a treasure.<br />Neil Gaiman, of course, is much better known here, and in Europe.  His 'Sandman' series, of which this technically a part, has achieved a certain legendary status among graphic novels, and such novels as 'Nevermore' and 'American Gods' have proven that he was a writer worthy of respect.  The story here is a derivative of a little-known Japanese legend called &quot;The Fox, The Monk, and the Mikado of All Night's Dreaming.&quot;  This Gaiman retells, placing his own creation, Morpheus, as The King of Dreams.<br />The tale is about a young Monk living in an isolated temple, who makes a great impression on a fox who lives nearby.  She gradually comes to love the monk, but always maintains her distance.  One night, she overhears a group of creatures discussing the plans of their master to kill the monk in his dreams.  Determined that the monk should live, she sets out to save him.  The ensuing story is both touching and unique.  And Amano's illustrations rest gemlike within it.<br />The volume is sumptuously printed, and really deserves a slipcase.  Suffice it to say, it will occupy a treasured place on my shelves.  Both a love story and a teaching fable, it stays in the mind for some time.  In the end, you will agree with the King of All Night's Dreaming:  &quot;Lessons were learned.  Events occurred as it was proper for them to do.  I do not perceive that my attention was wasted.&quot;&quot;	2002-10-18
1374680:US	53082946	R29I9V4MFD00JG	1569713421	271572117	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 1: The Dust Waltz	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Stake, Two and Three and  -  Stake...	Badness is coming to Sunnydale in the person of two vampire sisters.  Lilith and Lamia aren't just vampires; they are vampires so old that everything pretty much happened after them.  Fortunately, they usually cannot stand each other.  Unfortunately, this isn't one of those fortunate times.  Each of the sisters is bringing a champion to town to fight to the death in a special ritual.  Known as the Dust Waltz, it involves ritual murder, drinking of blood, opening the Hellmouth for a demon and, as usual, ending the world as we know it.<br />So Lilith arrives, Angel panics, and a tree has a major collision with Buffy.  On the other side of town the rest of the gang are showing Giles' niece the sights when they discover that some of the sights are werewolves.  As you can tell, this original trade paperback does not have many dull moments.  Of course it also comes with a spectacular, no holds barred final conflagration.  To say the least, writer Dan Brereton has outdone himself.<br />'The Dust Waltz' does have a few flaws.  I never quite got my mind around a heavily tattooed Maori shape-changing champion of evil named Cecil.  And Giles' visiting niece Jane is a bit ditsy for being a chip off that particular block.  She has a remarkable knack for picking the wrong tunnel to explore.  But, over all the book maintains a good level of story and action.  I am a staunch fan of comic artists Hector Gomez and Sandu Florea.  Even though their Buffy doesn't much look like the 'real' Buffy, they capture the essence of the characters and provide them with a great deal of animation and expression.	2002-10-16
1376895:US	53082946	R18DNRBEQ6EII4	1569713006	348153547	Blade of the Immortal: Cry of the Worm Vol.2	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Burden of Forever	Having been introduced to Rin and Manji in Volume 1 ('Death of a Thousand'), and given a taste of the nature of their confrontation with the Itto-Ryu sword school, we now enter the real rhythm of the story telling.  At first glance, we are tempted to write this off as yet another samurai slasher, with its clear-cut division between good and evil.  But Hiroaki Samura has other plans, and 'Cry of the Worm' is his first step in muddying the waters.<br />In the first episode ('The Fanatic'), Rin sees Magatsu Taito, one of the assassins, having her dead father's sword sharpened.  When she voices her outrage, she catapults Manji into another fight sequence, this time to recover the weapon.  Manji's method of regaining the sword is painful (to say the least), and young Rin begins to understand that her desire for vengeance has a price.<br />Manji's immortality depends on a type of bloodworm that cares for its host by healing all wounds.  Manji has yet to deal with the long-term effects of gift, and is not completely prepared when he meets Erika Shizuma, another Itto-Ryu at a way station inn.  Shizuma tries to involve Manji in a plot to overthrow the leader of the Itto-Ryu.  Properly suspicious, Manji refuses, and in the following scuffle discovers that Shizuma is also infected with the worms.<br />The conflict between Manji and Shizuma become an inquest into the realities of immortal life.  He is a mirror that forces Manji to look at own commitments.  In addition, he provides a somewhat different insight into the Itto-Ryu than we have had so far.  If their tactics are grim, their motives are not completely selfish.  They are a natural reaction to the excessive complexities of the sword school system and the excesses of the samurai class, which is more about show and politics than it is about the disciplines of fighting.<br />In this second volume of the series, we are not so much asked to resolve the questions as to take note of them.  As this series builds, the violence of the quest will play in counterpoint to these musings about meaning.  Gradually the inner dialog will play a more and more vital part.f the quest will play in counterpoint to these musings about meaning.  Gradually the inner dialog will play a more and more vital part.	2002-10-14
1377090:US	53082946	R17L4H1TDSHJZM	0140166157	999720718	Hide My Eyes (Penguin Classic Crime)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Now You See Him...	\\"Hide My Eyes\\" (also published as \\"Tether's End\\") is one of Margery Allingham's more atypical works.  Rather than take their normal place as main characters, Albert Campion and Charlie Luke appear only occasionally.  They serve to provide vital context and to move the plot along, but they do not take part in direct action until the book is almost over.<br />The tale is about a seemingly unconnected series of killings which Luke is convinced are related somehow.  First, a bus with a strange old couple in it is used to transport a victim from a crime scene and then vanishes.  Then another old couple sets out for South Africa and disappear.  Some Jewelry from an unsolved murder turns up unexpectedly.  All of these events tie into Luke's old patrol, Goff's Square, and Garden Green<br />While Campion and Luke try to fit the pieces together, the narrator moves on, shifting from the murderer's point of view to that of several important and delightful characters.  Young Annabel Tassie has come to London at the invitation of her Aunt Polly.  Polly runs a museum of peculiarities originally collected by her late husband.  Having never met Aunt Polly, Annabel calls on Richard Waterfield, an old friend to keep an eye out for her.  Richard, who is starting out his professional life in the big city, has not seen Annabel since he failed to marry her sister, and is greatly affected by the changes in his old chum.  I believe it takes him about 5 seconds to fall totally under her spell.<br />It is Richard and Annabel who are the true main characters.  Their separate adventures, Annabel with Aunt Polly, and Richard with the murderer that Luke and Campion are hunting, provide the main backdrop for the tense and chilling story of a killer who is gradually spinning out of control.  Their paths weave through restaurants, clubs, barbershops, and city dumps until at last they come together in the small museum across from Garden Green.<br />This is an intricate and thrilling tale, a disturbing look into the mind of a charming sociopath, and an intriguing study of London life at the end of the 1950's.  As she did in \\"Tiger in the Smoke,\\" Margery Allingham turns from comfortable writing habits to show a rare expertise with psychological fiction.  I am quite confident that the Allingham fan will find it irresistible.g look into the mind of a charming sociopath, and an intriguing study of London life at the end of the 1950's.  As she did in \\"Tiger in the Smoke,\\" Margery Allingham turns from comfortable writing habits to show a rare expertise with psychological fiction.  I am quite confident that the Allingham fan will find it irresistible.	2002-10-14
1379486:US	53082946	R11K35000WLA7W	1569714126	292875457	Blade of the Immortal: On Silent Wings, Volume 4	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Review of Volume 1	This volume and its sequel capture events from issues 19 through 28 of the manga comic books, and represents events in the earlier phases of the adventures of Rin and Manji.  It contains two stories, \\"Rin's Bane,\\" and the first part of \\"On Silent Wings.\\"  Both of these are strong stories that trace Rin's growth from a young girl hell-bent on vengeance for the murder of her parents into a woman who is beginning to understand the real price of retaliations.<br />In \\"Rin's Bane,\\" the young swordswoman, smarting from an argument with Manji over her fighting skills heads off into the woods to wash her hair.  There she finds herself face to face with Kagehisa Anotsu, the leader of the Itto-Ryu swordsmen.  Anotsu brushes aside her skills, and she is forced to face some very unpleasant truths about her beliefs.  The lessons of this encounter haunt Rin in the next story, \\"On Silent Wings.\\"  Manji and Rin are at a local fair when the immortal swordsman suddenly finds that a local mask maker is another Itto-Ryu.  In a parallel encounter, Rin risks her own life to prevent a haughty samurai from killing a young child.  Manji barely avoids a public battle, and Rin is shocked to recognize the artist as the killer who defiled her mother.<br />As events proceed inexorably towards the second volume's part of the story, we sense the internal tensions in Rin and her swordsman as they confront the possible outcomes of their actions.  Hiroaki Samura's tale again touches on complex moral issues rather than simply dishing out a violent samurai melodrama.  The grim horror that counterpoints the lighter exchanges between Samura's main encounters provides the basis for much thought and consideration.  One of the surprises in this series has been the quality of the translation, which manages to carry through the whole range of the dialog.  Yet Japanese is preserved where it is part if the detailed and carefully composed artwork.  This extremely high level of artistic integrity grows on the reader.  \\"Blade of the Immortal\\" is much more a genuine graphic novel than it is a simple manga.der.  \\"Blade of the Immortal\\" is much more a genuine graphic novel than it is a simple manga.	2002-10-12
1379514:US	53082946	RF0WL8IS0SDLD	0385417101	855602298	Eight Skilled Gentlemen	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Almost....	I have written about Barry Hughart before ('Bridge of Birds') and how much I enjoyed his mock Chinese, tongue-in-cheek writing.  This is the third novel (and the last) in his series about Number Ten Ox and Master Li, detectives, trouble-shooters, and general mischief-makers.  The middle volume, 'The Story of the Stone,' is not presently in print, although chances of finding it used are still good.<br />The two find themselves in attendance at the Peking execution day, where the current royal execution is going for a record 1,071 clean decapitations.  At the very last moment, a vampire ghoul makes a daytime appearance in hot pursuit of the city guard.  This causes the Devil's Hand to miss his stroke, and Master Li jumps at the opportunity to investigate.  Finding that one of the vampire's victims appears to be an august resident of the Forbidden City, Master Li confronts the Celestial Master (the wisest Confucian in the realm) and is invited to investigate what appears to be an impossible series of events.<br />Befriending a roving puppeteer and his beautiful daughter,  Master Li and Number Ten chase across China looking for clues in what appears to be a complex smuggling plot that uses magical, golden cages as telephones.  However, the cages are more than etheric portables, and the present holders of them keep meeting horrible fates at the hands of weird monsters and an ape.  Who these creatures are, the purpose of the cages, and what any of this has to do with the annual Death Birds Ghost Boat Rain Race are the mysteries that Master Li has to solve.<br />This is a plot that sends the reader careening across the pages like a pinball in a bumper factory.  The sense of the tale is always just beyond the reader's grasp as Hughart unfolds Number Ten's narrative at high pace.  Readers who relish an orderly progression of development and characters that make dependable sense may find this a bit unsatisfactory.  Hughart seems determined to exceed the more controlled chaos of 'Bridge of Birds' and this is not all for the good.  I found the confusion a bit too ... confusing.<br />This is more of a burlesque, compared to Kai Lung's wry sarcasm, but it still works.  Beware taking the plot for granted, since almost nothing is really what it seems.  Hughart's ability to make impossible characters work is undeniable, and he has either a vivid imagination or access to a large collection of Chinese myths.  While this tale is not up to the standards of 'Bridge of Birds' it is still a genuinely enjoyable read.  And a pleasant change of pace for people for those who spend too much time with weightier tomes.of 'Bridge of Birds' and this is not all for the good.  I found the confusion a bit too ... confusing.<br />This is more of a burlesque, compared to Kai Lung's wry sarcasm, but it still works.  Beware taking the plot for granted, since almost nothing is really what it seems.  Hughart's ability to make impossible characters work is undeniable, and he has either a vivid imagination or access to a large collection of Chinese myths.  While this tale is not up to the standards of 'Bridge of Birds' it is still a genuinely enjoyable read.  And a pleasant change of pace for people for those who spend too much time with weightier tomes.	2002-10-12
1380206:US	53082946	RGEGDERGAHN4Z	1569714444	590595817	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 5: On Silent Wings II	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Review of Volume Two	(Readers please not that this is a review of the second part of this two volume series.  I am making every effort to avoid any spoilers, but it is impossible not to give away some information.  Please keep that in mind if you read this review before actually reading Part One)<br />This volume opens with a very dark episode recalling the rape and murder of Rin's mother.  While this story has been told before (see 'Blood of a Thousand') the focus is quite different.  For at the end of this grim vision we find Rin in the house of mask maker Kawakami Araya, one of the worst of the killers.  Recalling her grandfather's warning about the price of vengeance Rin has decided to try something different.  She demands an apology rather than the artist's life.  Kawakami, frightened at the possibility of exposure and the effect on his young son, rejects her offer, and at first it looks like history might repeat itself.  Manji intervenes, and the usual titanic struggle ensues.  The artist has a fighting style all his own, which provides an interesting variation on the usual mayhem worked on Manji's immortal body.<br />These episodes are exceptionally thoughtful.  Rin is beginning to see through her own illusions and question not only whether vengeance will heal her own hurts, but also whether it offers any hope of closure either.  As such, she is maturing, not just becoming a woman, but developing wisdom as well.  Even though there can be no real end to the violence as long as the itto-ryu swordsmen seek the lives of both Rin and Manji.  Surprisingly Manji, who normally plays the cold-hearted killer, shows surprising thoughtfulness and sensitivity to the young woman's internal crisis.  Writer/artist Hiroaki Samura brings home the essentially tragic nature of violence while retaining the basic context and theme of the overall manga.<br />As is always the case, the artwork and imagination seem to step completely beyond the bounds of the simple, black and white media.  The dark fight sequence and its aftermath underline what is happening in the story line.  This fine artwork and the stories willingness to question its own meaning are two of the things that set this series apart from the typical historical manga.ight sequence and its aftermath underline what is happening in the story line.  This fine artwork and the stories willingness to question its own meaning are two of the things that set this series apart from the typical historical manga.	2002-10-11
1384093:US	53082946	R1K86MIKM54Z52	1569715416	269140188	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Spike & Dru	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Other Great Romance	Spike has gradually become one of the most popular figures in the Slayer world.  A hopeless romantic when alive he managed to cross over to the dark side with his capacity for love intact.  His loyalty to Drusilla, who made him, was remarkable considering Dru's own flighty nature.  Of course, his complex relationship with Buffy once again showed us a Spike who can be stubbornly in love despite every possible roadblock.<br />Dru of course, is the mad mistress.  Psychically hypersensitive and more than a little kinky, her relationship with Spike actually lasted for a very long time.  Her beauty is hard to define and her mind is, well, let us just say she is a bit distracted.  Sometimes it is hard to see what the two lovers saw in each other, other than Spike's willing compliance with Dru's every wish.  Certainly, as Spike developed more independence, the relationship between the two deteriorated.<br />This trade paperback collects the contents of three Spike and Dru comics, two from 1999 and the other from the end of 2000.  In addition, there is a short from the &quot;Lover's Walk&quot; comic issued in 2001.  The stories run from the Chicago World's Fair in 1933 to a more contemporary Carnivale in Brazil.  During this journey, we will learn much about what makes our anti-heroes tick.<br />&quot;All's Fair&quot; takes a short flashback to China and the Boxer Rebellion and then jumps forward to the Chicago Fair.  Spike and Dru treat the fair as a giant delicatessen until they run into some characters bent on vengeance from their past and a demon who wants to make earth its home.<br />To open &quot;The Queen of Hearts&quot; the lovers eat an entire topless bar and then move on to a riverboat casino.  No one seems to have warned Spike that winning too much draws the wrong kind of attention - in spades.<br />In &quot;Paint the Town&quot; Spike is so frustrated with Drusilla's obsession with Angel.  He ends the relationship in a fiery blaze and heads of for Turkey for a prolonged escape.  Unexpectedly Dru tracks him down with a new friend in tow - a necromancer.  She wants to get even, but before long, everyone is in trouble.<br />The final story, &quot;Who Made Who,&quot; is a short finds the newly made up lovers in Brazil.  However, Dru's attention once again wanders and Spike spoils the party.<br />I don't care all that much for the pencil work in these stories.  Two were done by Eric Powell and the other two are by Ryan Sook.  The work isn't bad, just a little to simplified and roughed in for my tastes.  Since Sook has become quite well known, I am probably in the minority.  Regardless of the artwork, the stories are all excellent, Chris Golden doing the lion's share on all of them.  Certainly, any Spike fan will find this required reading.prolonged escape.  Unexpectedly Dru tracks him down with a new friend in tow - a necromancer.  She wants to get even, but before long, everyone is in trouble.<br />The final story, &quot;Who Made Who,&quot; is a short finds the newly made up lovers in Brazil.  However, Dru's attention once again wanders and Spike spoils the party.<br />I don't care all that much for the pencil work in these stories.  Two were done by Eric Powell and the other two are by Ryan Sook.  The work isn't bad, just a little to simplified and roughed in for my tastes.  Since Sook has become quite well known, I am probably in the minority.  Regardless of the artwork, the stories are all excellent, Chris Golden doing the lion's share on all of them.  Certainly, any Spike fan will find this required reading.	2002-10-08
1384355:US	53082946	RZ0BO8H84M878	1563895587	601346115	Darkchylde	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Never Fall in Love with Fire-Breathing 17 Year Old	'Darkchylde' became something of a comic craze in the 1990's, partially due to superb artwork and partly due to Randy Queen's (story and pencil) equally superb marketing skills.  This trade paperback contains the work from the original five issue series.  It tells the story of seventeen-year-old Ariel Chylde who, on a horrible traumatic night, discovers that she has the ability to change into creatures from some dark dimension of the mind and commit major mayhem.<br />When Ariel's father triggers her first change, she makes toast of both him and her home.  Perry Stodghill is the boyfriend (well almost boyfriend), who witnesses some of this and tries to help her.  Unfortunately, Ariel generated enough psychic energy to start a manhunt for her by Sentry, a local special ops branch which specializes in wierd.  Perry's father is the man assigned to bring her in.<br />Lurking in the background is Kauldron, an exile from the dark dimension, who wants to use Ariel's powers to bring over a host of demons to, guess what, control the earth.  Not all the demons fall under Kauldron's spell, and soon we have demons vs. demons, demons vs. Ariel, demons vs. humans, and every other variation of mayhem you can mention.  Once the action builds up to frantic (around page four), there is never any let up, straight through to the end.<br />This isn't really a complex plot.  There is more dialog than is usual for this kind of comic, and the characters have unnexpected depth.  But it the artwork, and in particular, the subject of the artwork, that made this series take off.  Ariel Chylde is an anatomical impossibility, the perfect embodiment of almost every man's dreams.  And, when her clothes aren't painted on her, they are falling off her.  Don't get me wrong, everything else in the comic is also great, but there is no question but that the real plot is Ariel's body and what happens to it.<br />No question but that this is exploitative, and if you are sensitive to this, you will find this book quite offensive.  And, of course, this is not a publication for children.  But Randy Queen's ability to fill a frame with strong composition and tense action are undeniable.  Jason Gorder's ink work and Jimmy Yu's colors are equally professional.  All this makes 'Darkchylde' the apex of the 'bad girl' comic genre.  If you really love modern comic work, this is worth looking at.is book quite offensive.  And, of course, this is not a publication for children.  But Randy Queen's ability to fill a frame with strong composition and tense action are undeniable.  Jason Gorder's ink work and Jimmy Yu's colors are equally professional.  All this makes 'Darkchylde' the apex of the 'bad girl' comic genre.  If you really love modern comic work, this is worth looking at.	2002-10-08
1385762:US	53082946	R12J5A9LWPXFV9	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Considering the Possibilities	One of the unique characteristics of China Mieville's work, which I discovered while reading 'Perdido Street Station,' is that you can put his books down for several weeks, pick them up and start reading and the whole novel comes back to life.  I attribute this to the richness and vitality of the vision that guides the writing.  Mieville does not so much tell a story as create a world that leaps to life before us and fires our own imaginations.  I found myself wanting to absorb this world in small bites, savoring the details before they are lost in the next flood of images.<br /><br />If 'The Scar' can be about one person, that person is Bellis Coldwine, whose past relationship with Isaac der Grimnebulin (of 'Perdido Street Station') has led her to decide that she should flee New Crobuzon for safety.  Seeking to get as far away from the city as possible, she boards a ship for Nova Esperium.  She plans to work as an interpreter to pay her way and to return once the outcry about Isaac has been forgotten.  But the gods of Bas-Lag have other plans, and Bellis' ship is seized by pirates from the floating city of Armada.  If anything, she is even further from New Crobuzon than she had planned to go.  For there is no return from Armada.<br />However, this book is much larger than any one person's story.  Vivid personalities seem to leap from Mieville's palette.  Tanner Sack, remade into a creature of the sea and sentenced to labor in Nova Esperium for his crimes.  Shekel, Tanner's friend, who learns to read and triggers momentous events.  Simon Fennic, the secret agent who always knows more than he tells.  The ritually scarred Lovers, who lead Armada on a grand quest for power.  Uther Doul, a man of complex motives who wields the Possible Sword.  And that is just a few of many among the mundane, the seductive, and the horrible.<br />Armada is a character in itself, of course.  It is formed by the accretion of countless ships upon which its fantastical architecture is built.  Floating on the seas of Bas-Lag, it lives by piracy and the industry of its citizens, and manages to contain all the accoutrements of civilization.  Its smallness belies its complexity.  It is place where all, whether human, remade, or other form of sentience come together as equals.  Where the form of government is a confederation of ridings.  Unwillingly, Bellis is drawn into the intricacies of Armada's plots, never quite sure whom she can trust or if her will is her own.<br />The plot that binds this together it a quest of epic proportions.  The powers of Armada have become entranced by ancient lore and arcane wisdom.  They seek the wherewithal to make dreams become real and have the audacity to take it.  This complex undertaking plays against the counter point of mysteries hidden in the sea and Bellis' struggle to free herself from Armada's nets.  All of this taking place on a stage of planetary scope.  Before they are done, readers will learn much about Bas-Lag and the creatures that people it.<br />It is always a pleasant surprise when an author's second novel is better than his first, and the third even better.  'The Scar' will momentarily remind you of Melville's 'Moby Dick' or Jack Vance's 'World of Adventure,' among others.  But the truth is that this is some of the most original work to come to science fiction in some time.  Mieville's imagination is equaled by a firm command of language.  He has a unique ability to change his pacing and style subtly as his viewpoint shifts from on character to another.  I can think of few writers who have this much skill.  Reading 'The Scar' is a unique experience, a peek into the mind of an author who may very well become one of this century's best.Floating on the seas of Bas-Lag, it lives by piracy and the industry of its citizens, and manages to contain all the accoutrements of civilization.  Its smallness belies its complexity.  It is place where all, whether human, remade, or other form of sentience come together as equals.  Where the form of government is a confederation of ridings.  Unwillingly, Bellis is drawn into the intricacies of Armada's plots, never quite sure whom she can trust or if her will is her own.<br />The plot that binds this together it a quest of epic proportions.  The powers of Armada have become entranced by ancient lore and arcane wisdom.  They seek the wherewithal to make dreams become real and have the audacity to take it.  This complex undertaking plays against the counter point of mysteries hidden in the sea and Bellis' struggle to free herself from Armada's nets.  All of this taking place on a stage of planetary scope.  Before they are done, readers will learn much about Bas-Lag and the creatures that people it.<br />It is always a pleasant surprise when an author's second novel is better than his first, and the third even better.  'The Scar' will momentarily remind you of Melville's 'Moby Dick' or Jack Vance's 'World of Adventure,' among others.  But the truth is that this is some of the most original work to come to science fiction in some time.  Mieville's imagination is equaled by a firm command of language.  He has a unique ability to change his pacing and style subtly as his viewpoint shifts from on character to another.  I can think of few writers who have this much skill.  Reading 'The Scar' is a unique experience, a peek into the mind of an author who may very well become one of this century's best.	2002-10-06
1390583:US	53082946	R2DYUHE0ZOXJU8	0765301164	29730777	A Scattering of Jades	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	'Never again shall you return'	I select my 'next book to read' by picking through what it waiting on my shelves and reading a few pages here and there.  It is a rare experience when a book I start out to take a quick look at suddenly becomes the one I am reading to the exclusion of all else.  Of course, authors who can pick up a mythology and create a compelling and original story out of it are equally uncommon.  Alexander Irvine is not the first who has essayed the fertile ground of Aztec legend, but, by setting the story in the U.S. of the 1840's, a deeper and more modern significance than one would anticipate.  This is a tale about monsters, but it is not a monster story.<br />The story turns on the awakening of a chacmool, an Aztec avatar of the god Tlaloc, who seeks to recreate the world via a series of magical acts and a final sacrifice.  Set against the machinations of Riley Steen, who has prepared the way for the chacmool is Archie Prescott, who lost his wife and daughter Jane in fires magically set to mark the young girl as the intended sacrifice.  Completely distracted by the loss, Prescott is at his nadir when a sequence of events reveals to him that Jane is still alive and provides him with a new purpose to his life.  A series of eerie encounters sets him on Jane's path in an effort to prevent the sacrifice.<br />The result is a mage's journey across the U.S., from New York City to the Mammoth Cave in far Kentucky.  At each step in this mythic journey, he meets adversity, and enemies as inconstant as are his friends.  Seemingly random events flow together for him in an almost foreordained pattern.  As Prescott proceeds on his own path Stephen Bishop, a Negro slave and guide to Mammoth Cave, begins his own interior journey, enticed into providing aid and support to the chacmool in return for a promise of freedom for himself and his children.  This subtle subtext on the nature and effect of slavery molds both men as they proceed to their meeting in the caverns below.<br />The parallels between the men are carefully constructed.  Each seeks the salvation of his children.  Archie must learn to see the dark, and Stephen to see in the dark.  Both are manipulated and molded by events, and each learns something from the dignity and strength of the other.  For the reader, this is simply one of the more important facets of a surprisingly complex tale of fantasy and alternate history.  Among the guest appearances that dot the novel are Edgar Allen Poe and Aaron Burr as Irvine proves himself adept in using history as a mystery play.<br />You will find yourself reminded at times of Tim Power and Neil Gaiman.  While I do not think that Irvine has achieved the quality of either, that he can evoke echoes of them is one of the best of signs.  'A Scattering of Jades' is one of the best debut novels I have seen this year, and one I heartily recommend.between the men are carefully constructed.  Each seeks the salvation of his children.  Archie must learn to see the dark, and Stephen to see in the dark.  Both are manipulated and molded by events, and each learns something from the dignity and strength of the other.  For the reader, this is simply one of the more important facets of a surprisingly complex tale of fantasy and alternate history.  Among the guest appearances that dot the novel are Edgar Allen Poe and Aaron Burr as Irvine proves himself adept in using history as a mystery play.<br />You will find yourself reminded at times of Tim Power and Neil Gaiman.  While I do not think that Irvine has achieved the quality of either, that he can evoke echoes of them is one of the best of signs.  'A Scattering of Jades' is one of the best debut novels I have seen this year, and one I heartily recommend.	2002-10-02
1391656:US	53082946	R2TCFLT31Y3GGP	1569714452	444914701	Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Vol. 3: Bad Blood	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not So Fresh Appearances	'Bad Blood' is drawn from BTVS comics 9 through 11, continuing the story of Selke, a vampire in desperate need of a makeover and yen for revenge.  Buffy is responsible for Selke's loss in the looks department (see the previous trade paperback, 'The Remaining Sunlight').  Nor will the story end here.  There are several more issues to go before the battle is completely resolved.  Once writers Andi Watson and Joe Bennet find a good thing, there is no letting go of it.<br />'Hey Good Looking' (two parts) is Selkie's real dramatic entrance.  Literally ruined by being toasted by Buffy, Selke sets out to restore her good looks and get even with the Slayer.  While Buffy hunts ghouls the vampire looks for a good, but corrupt, plastic surgeon.  Selke finds that being a vampire with a terminal skin condition does not command much respect.  Poor Dr. Flitter!.<br />In 'A Boy Named Sue,' Buffy has to deal with a band member with overactive glands and a blood drive that is drawing vampires from all over Sunnydale.  Selke's Dr. Flitter finally turns to magic and manages to... well, you will just have to read it.<br />An additional story, 'Hello Moon,' may be new to BTVS readers.  Buffy meets a real Selkie during a walk by the seashore.  After a rough start, the two discover that they have things to teach each other.  Between dusting a few vamps, that is.<br />It would be nice to have the entire Selke series all under one title, but there seems to be little hope of that.  There is simply too much of it.  Dark Horse was trying to emulate the television series at that time and wanted a story that would run for an entire season, with all kinds of story arcs.  'Blood of Carthage' is the next largest series, but rambles considerably less.<br />As I have mentioned elsewhere, the trade paperbacks often simply reprise stories from the comics.  Thus, for those who do not have access to the original issues, they can be a great treat.  Do not expect a real graphic novel, though, just well executed artwork and an interesting story line.  These are, after all, comics, and should be approached with that understanding.  If you want more of Buffy than the shows and the novels however, the trade paperbacks are worth the price.uted artwork and an interesting story line.  These are, after all, comics, and should be approached with that understanding.  If you want more of Buffy than the shows and the novels however, the trade paperbacks are worth the price.	2002-10-01
1393062:US	53082946	R2DST8IOB9PTVQ	1569715602	507731253	Blade of the Immortal: The Gathering part 2, Volume 9	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Unkindest Cuts	Readers please note that this review is specific to Part Two of the 'The Gathering.'  [online store] has decided to treat the two volumes as if they were the same, which is unfortunate.  While nothing written here really reveals and significant plot details that would hurt your enjoyment of the first volume, I do suggest you read my previous review first.<br />Having managed to get over my confusion at finding myself directly in the middle of the action in the previous volume, I somehow expected that its sequel would be easier to manage.  After all, I had done my homework and discovered what Hiroaki Samura's real story arcs were, and I had even stolen a few peeks at the first few manage.  I allowed this to give me a sense of false confidence as I picked up this volume.<br />What I was unprepared for was that fully on half of this volume is a detailed study of a fight between Manji and three opponents.  This battle started in the previous volume and reaches genuinely heroic proportions as Manji is slowly chopped to bits.  Apparently, this is standard operating procedure for the immortal samurai, who manages to survive injuries that would have made short work of a vampire.  Since we know Manji will survive - the manga is his story - we are pushed right up to the point where all the hacking and slashing seems a bit funny.<br />The story of Rin's own efforts to get to Kaga and seek vengeance for her father's death is far less violent.  The swordswoman seeks the aid of an innkeeper and his wife, hoping that she may masquerade as a relative in order to pass through the control point between Edo and Kaga.  She discovers that this will take more than simple subterfuge and must use all her resources of courage to make her way.<br />While I cannot help but pick on a series of extraordinarily violent episodes, but the truth is that Samura's art remains at a consistently high level, regardless of subject matter.  In addition, he displays a great depth of knowledge of 18th century Japan.  I find the subtext of the competition between sword schools and the stratification of Japanese society eye opening, much more vivid than what the history books provide.  While the story is uniquely Japanese in its telling it appeals to values of indomitable will and courage which are admirable anywhere.  This continues to be a masterful series.ry Japan.  I find the subtext of the competition between sword schools and the stratification of Japanese society eye opening, much more vivid than what the history books provide.  While the story is uniquely Japanese in its telling it appeals to values of indomitable will and courage which are admirable anywhere.  This continues to be a masterful series.	2002-09-30
1394005:US	53082946	R3QW0OUS9RF79Z	0743400372	661842082	These Our Actors (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Behind the Scenes	Willow exploits the Sunnydale University's resources by signing up for a theater class to balance her otherwise geeky curriculum.  Originally, she had hoped that Buffy would join her, but a full schedule of vampire demolishment and Dawn-rearing has the Slayer completely occupied.  Undeterred, Willow discovers that the class involves practical work assisting in the theater as well as attending classes.  Before she knows it, Willow has been drawn into the magic of costumes and scene painting.  And theatrical superstitions.  And ghosts.<br />Something is not quite right in the Sunnydale U. Theater.  Accidents keep happening and Willow hears the murmuring of voices.  The young witch's curiosity is piqued and she is drawn into a world where it is not always clear what is on stage and what is in the audience.  Then a special assignment from her professor, Dr. Addams, sends her on a chase for books on the magical uses of the theater and things really begin to get complicated.<br />The real treat of the novel is the other story arc, though.  For the first time we are given the details of Spike's life before and after meeting Drusilla.  These document his change from a well bred Englishman with a penchant for writing horrible verse to an irascible vampire who thinks that the best cure for a headache (someone else's headache) is a spike between the ears.  We find out about his love for the beautiful Cecily Addams, his making, and his quest for revenge.  Gradually, this story and Willow's discoveries in modern Sunnydale begin to twine together into a tale of epic proportions.<br />Buffy is noticeable absent from this story, and the result seems to be a more introspective plot.  Even Spike's story arc has less action than is usual for a book in this series.  Perhaps the thing I miss the most is Buffy's ability to banter in the midst of badness.  In recompense, we get addition insights into the characters of Willow and Spike, a great deal of information about the ancient history of the theater, and a dryer but more carefully crafted novel.  This may not be to everyone's taste.<br />Another issue is that the time gap between the books and current seasons.  It is getting harder to become absorbed in a story that goes in a completely different direction than the show has gone.  The advance of the seasons has been carefully controlled in the books, but they are in danger of losing their relevance if they do not get closer into synch.  None of this is the authors' fault, but it distracts from what actually is an interesting and enjoyable novel.of the theater, and a dryer but more carefully crafted novel.   This may not be to everyone's taste.<br />Another issue is that the time gap between the books and current seasons.  It is getting harder to become absorbed in a story that goes in a completely different direction than the show has gone.  The advance of the seasons has been carefully controlled in the books, but they are in danger of losing their relevance if they do not get closer into synch.  None of this is the authors' fault, but it distracts from what actually is an interesting and enjoyable novel.	2002-09-29
1397189:US	53082946	R2MKALB0SV40CC	0553275852	814945983	The Monkey's Raincoat  (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	188	197	N	Y	Introducing Jiminy Cricket	Possibly one of the most delightful moments for a crabby old reader and reviewer of mystery stories is to discover an excellent author whom he has somehow missed.  Of course, in this case it is also a bit embarrassing.  Robert Crais is the author of, among other things, 'L.A. Requiem,' indicating that this reviewer is not only unobservant, but a bit stubborn as well.  I am not always a fan of the hard-boiled detective/hero genre, and most of those I don't like seem to live around Los Angeles.<br />Deciding to break with a long tradition (for me), I ordered this book, the first in the Elvis Cole series, for my trial dip.  I was ill prepared for a small but potent bombshell that won its author several awards and nominations.  Gasping for breath, I settled in for an unexpectedly wild and enjoyable ride.<br />Elvis Cole is the anti-detective incarnate.  In an office filled with Disney memorabilia, shared with an invisible partner, Cole meets with new client Ellen Lang and her best friend Janet Simon.  The problem - Ellen's husband Mort and her son Perry have disappeared.  Ellen is a difficult client, but Mort definitely was not a perfect husband, and Cole proceeds on the assumption that this is a straightforward parental snatch and run.<br />Cole discovers Mort's girlfriend is missing as well, and that his business partners in the film business are a bit sleazy, but he is caught by surprise when this suddenly becomes a murder case.  The badness mounts as Cole finds his clues lead from film moguls to the top of the narcotics trade.  Soon Cole, on a grim search for the boy, is having his strings pulled by people who would just as soon kill him as look at him.  With unusual adeptness, the detective switches from Jiminy Cricket quotes to guns and fists.  Joined by his partner, Elvis Cole goes to war.<br />The success of this genre of detective fiction rises and falls on the quality of main characters.  Between John MacDonald, Raymond Chandler, Robert Parker, etc., etc., original plots are hard to come by.  So a unique character like the wisecracking, 1966 Corvette driving Elvis Cole is too precious to waste.  If you are looking to breathe some fresh air on your musty old mystery shelves, don't even consider passing this one by.ginal plots are hard to come by.  So a unique character like the wisecracking, 1966 Corvette driving Elvis Cole is too precious to waste.  If you are looking to breathe some fresh air on your musty old mystery shelves, don't even consider passing this one by.	2002-09-26
1398296:US	53082946	RUEHQFJTPBKO7	1569715343	171160968	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 6: Blood of Carthage	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Even Slayers Make Mistakes	This trade paperback presents a serial story that originally appeared in issues 21 through 25 of the BTVS comics.  Officially it occurs at the end of the third season, but is more of a bridge into season four, presenting Buffy as a new freshman in college, desperately trying to balance the pressures of real scholastic work with her night job - slaying.  When an old, scary legend of 'Mad Jack' comes back to life, Buffy over-reacts and kills the first suspect demon without a thorough investigation.  The result is a major crisis when it turns out that Mad Jack was just the guardian over something much worse.<br />Originally released during the Roman conquest of Carthage, Ky-Laag is major badness.  He was only brought under control at that time by the wiles of Vraka, another demon, who led a cult called 'The Blood of Carthage.'  Several thousand years later Buffy has let the rabbit out of the hate, and Vraka heads for Sunnydale to try to stop Ky-Laag and, in his spare time, kill the offending slayer.  Buffy feels the same way about Vraka, but, if they don't work something out, they will be dead and the rest of us will be worshipping Ky-Laag.<br />One of the other key story arcs is Willow's need for emancipation from a Xander who still treats her like a childhood sidekick.  As a young woman with significant magical and intellectual skills this has become more than a little irritating.  In a series of flashbacks we see the developing relationship between the two as children.  One in which Xander often took the lead.  The other piece of history is a series of pieces about Vraka and reason for his bad feelings towards Spike.  It should be no surprise that these do not paint the vampire with a chip in his head in a very good light.<br />One has to think of 'The Blood of Carthage' as more than a trade paperback rehashing the contents of a series of comic books.  The story itself is larger than its media, and the trade paperback or graphic novel suits it best.  Part of this is due to the efforts of Christopher Golden as writer, and the rest is due to editor Scott Allie's decision to deviate from the story telling style in the previous comic series - 'Bad Blood.'  This is not intended to be a criticism of Andi Watson's rambling nine-issue series.  Instead, Allie decided it was time for a change of pace and then turned to Golden, a proven Buffy novelist, to implement the idea.<br />Golden's story line is structured much like a novel, with a focused major story arc and rising levels of complexity and intensity.  To break up the pacing a bit we are treated with flashbacks to Willow's childhood with Xander and Spike's first encounter with Vraka.  Another thing that makes this series special is the carefully managed creative artwork.  While Cliff Richards is the artist for the main story,  Chynna Clugston-Major and the team of Paul Lee and Brian Horton each get one of the flashback series.  This is cleverly orchestrated to provide different moods and contexts.  The art really is excellent, and a separate article on what went into it is included in this volume.<br />If you have been wondering which trade paperback to buy first, this should be high on your list.is due to the efforts of Christopher Golden as writer, and the rest is due to editor Scott Allie's decision to deviate from the story telling style in the previous comic series - 'Bad Blood.'  This is not intended to be a criticism of Andi Watson's rambling nine-issue series.  Instead, Allie decided it was time for a change of pace and then turned to Golden, a proven Buffy novelist, to implement the idea.<br />Golden's story line is structured much like a novel, with a focused major story arc and rising levels of complexity and intensity.  To break up the pacing a bit we are treated with flashbacks to Willow's childhood with Xander and Spike's first encounter with Vraka.  Another thing that makes this series special is the carefully managed creative artwork.  While Cliff Richards is the artist for the main story,  Chynna Clugston-Major and the team of Paul Lee and Brian Horton each get one of the flashback series.  This is cleverly orchestrated to provide different moods and contexts.  The art really is excellent, and a separate article on what went into it is included in this volume.<br />If you have been wondering which trade paperback to buy first, this should be high on your list.	2002-09-25
1398994:US	53082946	R37YHP9FJQRCLZ	1569715467	340526209	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 8: The Gathering	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Starting in the Middle	One of the drawbacks of diving into a lengthy manga series is that it is not always obvious where to start.  In this particular case, I found myself in front of a shelf full of volumes of Hiroaki Samura's popular series without a clue to which were the first.  So, totally at random, I selected this book and its sequel ('The Gathering, Part II'), guessing from the titles that they at least represented a single story.  Typical reviewer's luck, I got home to discover that I had managed to start right in the middle.<br />Unlike novels in a series, which often feel the need to provide some background, these manga start right in.  Without even knowing the characters' names, I was busy trying to pick up the details of the plot.  Gradually I pieced together that Manji was an immortal swordsman who could not die until he killed 1000 villains.  He travels with Rin, a young swordswoman, helping her track down the murderers of her parents.<br />'The Gathering' starts out in an inn where Manji and Rin are resting after a failed attempt on the life of Anotsu Kagehisa head of the Itto-ryu sword school.  All they know is that Anotsu has left Edo for Kaga.  Rin is determined to follow him, but there is a hitch.  Travel in 18th Century Japan was severely restricted, and neither Manji nor Rin have the credentials to pass the checkpoints.  Rin is so determined though that she ignores Manji's warnings and heads off on her own.  Manji has no choice but to follow her.  Their situation is complicated by the fact that they have been charged with murder and their sketches have been posted all over the path to Kaga.<br />This volume traces Manji and Rin's individual paths as they each try to acquire the coveted pass (tegata).  True to their natures, Rin chooses the less violent path of subterfuge and Manji follows the swordsman's path.  But neither finds progress easy.  Without question, this is a two-volume problem.<br />The series is drawn with great elegance and style - much better than many of the manga I have seen.  And once you figure out what exactly is going on, the story progresses smoothly.  There is a great deal of depth to the characters coupled with a strong plot.  The details of late 18th Century Japanese society are worth the price of admission on their own.<br />One thing I did find hard to follow was the depiction of fighting.  With very little dialog other than sound effects these have a much different style from U.S. Comic violence.  They are far more violent and have a disjointed style that takes more concentration to follow.  However, this is just a matter of acclimatization.  Taken as a whole, it is certainly no surprise that 'Blade of the Immortal' enjoys extensive popularity both in Japan and elsewhere.ny of the manga I have seen.  And once you figure out what exactly is going on, the story progresses smoothly.  There is a great deal of depth to the characters coupled with a strong plot.  The details of late 18th Century Japanese society are worth the price of admission on their own.  <br />One thing I did find hard to follow was the depiction of fighting.  With very little dialog other than sound effects these have a much different style from U.S. Comic violence.  They are far more violent and have a disjointed style that takes more concentration to follow.  However, this is just a matter of acclimatization.  Taken as a whole, it is certainly no surprise that 'Blade of the Immortal' enjoys extensive popularity both in Japan and elsewhere.	2002-09-24
1402548:US	53082946	R38DH8LU1J2PPW	0552134651	532931410	Witches Abroad	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Telling Tales	I am pretty much a gung ho Terry Pratchett fan.  I think I've been reading his Discworld books ever since he started writing them.  What baffles me is that every time I think I have caught up, I find a couple more that were written 'back then.'  I am becoming convinced that somehow Pratchett writes his books 'now,' and has them published 'then.'  It is probably some weird way to garner more royalties.<br />'Witches Abroad' is a case in point.  I was just feeling sorry that there haven't been any tales starring the team of Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat Garlick (apprentice witch and all around wet hen) when, miraculously, this appeared on the shelves.  Is it new?  Not hardly!  First published in 1991 it has managed to escape my notice for all that time.  Or rather, that is what Pratchett wants me to think.  I know a plot when I see one.<br />There are two rules about godmothers in Discworld.  First, they come in pairs, and second, when one dies, another has to come along and replace her.  Desiderata Hollow was a good godmother, but an awful planner.  When DEATH finally showed up, she had to pick a successor and skip the necessary training.  So while the two elder witches head for Desiderata's cottage to search for the wand, Magrat gets a package at home (where she is practicing New Age self-defense) and finds that she is now the only wet hen who can turn absolutely anything into a pumpkin.<br />Worse, when Gytha Ogg and Esme Weatherwax recover from this shock they discover that Magrat has a pressing assignment.  She must travel to Genua (a city far, far away in another place entirely) and keep a young woman from kissing a frog.  And so, the three most unlikely (and irascible) travelers set off for foreign parts, victimizing vampires, werewolves and countless innkeepers along the way.  Oh yes, I forgot to mention that Nanny brought along Greebo the (oversexed) cat along for company.  Of course, that is exactly the kind of cat Nanny would keep.<br />Leaving the countryside in a shambles, the three ride their broomsticks into Genua and set about the arduous task of rescuing Ember Ella.  You will like Genua; it is a combination of New Orleans, Port au Prince, and Hong Kong.  The food is wonderful, Voodoo witches ride their huts through the swamp, stories always come true, and everyone is either happy or dying in the effort.  And the other godmother lives there.  Book a flight now on the Trans Witch Airlines and you will arrive for the Fat Lunchtime Festival.<br />Once again, Pratchett has written a tour de farce of slapstick, sarcasm, and pure vaudeville.  'Witches Abroad' is an opportunity to make fun of everything from world travelers to fairy tales, and no one escapes unscathed.  Granny Weatherwax is one of my favorite Discworld characters, combining an acid tongue with Socratic wisdom - tough as nails and proud of it.  She and Nanny Ogg simply shine.  Margrat would too, if wet hens could shine.  And even she has a grand moment or two.  This is the best of the Discworld witch tales, if not one of Pratchett's best overall.he countryside in a shambles, the three ride their broomsticks into Genua and set about the arduous task of rescuing Ember Ella.  You will like Genua; it is a combination of New Orleans, Port au Prince, and Hong Kong.  The food is wonderful, Voodoo witches ride their huts through the swamp, stories always come true, and everyone is either happy or dying in the effort.  And the other godmother lives there.  Book a flight now on the Trans Witch Airlines and you will arrive for the Fat Lunchtime Festival.<br />Once again, Pratchett has written a tour de farce of slapstick, sarcasm, and pure vaudeville.  'Witches Abroad' is an opportunity to make fun of everything from world travelers to fairy tales, and no one escapes unscathed.  Granny Weatherwax is one of my favorite Discworld characters, combining an acid tongue with Socratic wisdom - tough as nails and proud of it.  She and Nanny Ogg simply shine.  Margrat would too, if wet hens could shine.  And even she has a grand moment or two.  This is the best of the Discworld witch tales, if not one of Pratchett's best overall.	2002-09-21
1403283:US	53082946	R2NKP96A8ATJXH	0743427548	954083603	Vengeance (ANGEL)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hand-to-Neck Combat	It is business as usual for the Angel team.  First, take out a Krinj demon living in a homeless shelter.  Make a quick stop to help out at a traffic accident.  Drop in at the office and get a job offer from Wolfram & Hart.  That's right, Lilah Morgan, VP in charge of dirty business, shows up at the Hyperion hotel to offer Angel a job that even the world's nastiest lawyers can't handle.  Lilah wants Angel to retrieve an artifact so evil that its user could destroy the human race.  Apparently, even Wolfram & Hart know that is bad for business.<br />The artifact is the Serpent's Hand.  This gruesome relic rumored to be one of the limbs the Snake lost in the Garden of Eden.  It is capable of totally corrupting its wearer.  In this case, the wielder is Lilith (Adam's other wife).  Working under the name of Lily Pierce, Lilith is using the guise of a motivational speaker to assemble a huge following.<br />Angel's job is simple, snatch the Hand (and turn it over to Ms. Morgan, of course).  Well it would be simple if it wasn't for the fact that the immortal Lilith is a powerful sorceress, protected by a horde of antediluvian demons.  Right away you know this is not going to be fun.  When the team makes their move they unleash a series of events that leaves none of them untouched.  Angel tries to kill every demon in Los Angeles, Lilith tries to wipe out the entire human race, and everyone else limps to cover.<br />I only have two minor complaints about the novel, neither enough to effect the over effect.  The first is that this is an extremely violent novel.  Even if most of the victims are demons, it still gets a bit out of hand.  The other issue is that a very different Lilith has already appeared in 'Dust Waltz' an original graphic novel in the BTVS series.  In that story, it is clear that Angel had known Lilith even earlier, but this is never mentioned in 'Vengeance'.  For those readers who like consistency, this may be a bit irritating.  In spite of these qualms, this may still be the best Angel novel of 2002.<br />Scott Ciencin and Dan Jolley have created an extraordinarily intense story, far darker than the norm, even for the Angel series.  Each of the characters must deal with changes and make decisions that stretch their ability to cope.  Cordelia is a particular focus, as she shows surprising maturity during the crisis and in her developing (?) relationship with millionaire David Nabbit.  In many ways, this is an imaginative and thoughtful story masquerading as blood bath.may still be the best Angel novel of 2002.<br />Scott Ciencin and Dan Jolley have created an extraordinarily intense story, far darker than the norm, even for the Angel series.  Each of the characters must deal with changes and make decisions that stretch their ability to cope.  Cordelia is a particular focus, as she shows surprising maturity during the crisis and in her developing (?) relationship with millionaire David Nabbit.  In many ways, this is an imaginative and thoughtful story masquerading as blood bath.	2002-09-20
1405583:US	53082946	RUF39CACZI8HW	1569714614	999845951	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 4: Crash Test Demons	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Title Shortage	This is one of those special moments when you realize that somebody out there in the world of publishing simply ran out of ideas for a title.  I have no clue why Scott Allie (the usual editor for the trade paperbacks) decided that 'Crash Test Demons' was the perfect title.  Well, a car is crunched (by Buffy), there is a test (Cordelia's) and, of course, where there is a Buffy there are demons.  Fortunately, one does not judge a story by its title.<br />Now for a little continuity.  This graphic trade paperback presents the stories from BTVS comics 13, 14, and 15.  They also comprise numbers 4, 5, and 6 of 'Bad Blood,' the story of Buffy's conflict with Selke.  It is the sequel to the trade paperback of the same name.<br />&quot;Delia's Gone&quot; introduces us to an entirely new Cordelia.  She is determined to help Willow win the intramural quiz-bowl competition when another contestant is vampirized at a bad time (it there a good time?).  Selke has her looks back and does a little partying before hatching a plot to take out The Slayer and turn Sunnydale into a meat market.<br />&quot;Love Sick Blues&quot; finds Buffy trying to figure out where a sudden run of super vampires is coming from.  Fortunately, they seem to spend as much time picking on each other as they do making food runs.  Of course, Selke and Doc Flitter know what's cooking, but they are not about to share the information.<br />Angel and Giles try to track down the source of the strange vampires in &quot;Lost Highway.&quot;  Buffy is trying to make it to a concert one what was supposed to be her night off, but, as usual, a few 'things' get in her way.  Selke and the Doc have gone over the edge cooking up a bit of a surprise for our girl with the stake.<br />Artwork is by Cliff Richards and Joe Pimentel and is up to their usual high standard.  The 'extra' in this book is an interview with Cliff Richards (who lives in Brazil) and includes many of the trial sketches that got him the job.  Of all the illustrators that have worked on the comics, Richards seems best at capturing the characters as they appear in the program.<br />Andi Watson's story line is getting a bit erratic as the series progresses.  The individual plots compete with the Selke story arc, creating a profusion of scene shifts.  This doesn't seem to work as well in the intense format of a comic story as it does in a media where there is more space to grow the story.  Even so, this is another 'must have' for the determined Buffy fan.ustrators that have worked on the comics, Richards seems best at capturing the characters as they appear in the program. <br />Andi Watson's story line is getting a bit erratic as the series progresses.  The individual plots compete with the Selke story arc, creating a profusion of scene shifts.  This doesn't seem to work as well in the intense format of a comic story as it does in a media where there is more space to grow the story.  Even so, this is another 'must have' for the determined Buffy fan.	2002-09-18
1406268:US	53082946	R3STRINYB0WPN7	0440228840	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Automatic Writing	This is Amelia Atwater-Rhodes' second vampire novel, a story of the progress of a woman who finds herself writing compulsively about the creatures of the night.  Jessica Allodola, a senior I high school has already published one novel, and is awaiting the release of her second, but her computer is filled with an entire mythology.  One that comes to her at night like a dream that will not let go.<br />Suddenly the tales become real, and Jessica is confronted with the reality of Aubrey, the vampire at the center of her tales.  Both the vampires and the witches that hunt them are real, and Jessica realizes that she knows far too much for her life to continue as before.  Jessica's need for isolation prevents her from reaching out to witches like Caryn Rashida, and soon her life becomes a turmoil of shadow and threat.  Jessica is strong, but is she a match for those that would seek her death?<br />Although many of its themes are borrowed from the works of other writers in this genre, this story still displays some creativity in the nature of vampires and how they live among humans.  The plot is really neither romance nor horror story, but runs closer to a third person diary.  As such, the characters never quite develop to any depth.  If the reader is looking for the strong feelings and prose of Anne Rice, or the action and violence of a Buffy story, then 'Demon in My View' will fail to satisfy.<br />Because of Atwater-Rhodes' age (15) at the time of writing this, it is tempting to be overly forgiving.  However, I believe that kind of condescension is a disservice to both the writer and the reader.  The truth is that, while well composed, the story lacks what is needed to bring it to life.  I fault the story more for its emotional distance than it's somewhat stagy plotting.<br />As an interior tale, I found it a watercolor masquerading as a drama.  While the author avoids the trap of depending entirely on action, she moves her characters as a chess player would.  It is a bit too sparse for me, and I feel the book underestimates its intended audience.  On the other hand, it is hardly a failure, and promises much for the future.a bit too sparse for me, and I feel the book underestimates its intended audience.  On the other hand, it is hardly a failure, and promises much for the future.	2002-09-17
1407434:US	53082946	R1EIHE1HXUH6FH	0451458923	511698178	Summer Knight (Dresden Files)	Books	5	129	130	N	N	Faerie and Foul	In the previous volume of this series, 'Grave Peril,' Harry Dresden's heroics had ruined a relationship, made enemies of just about every vampire in the world, and put all his fellow wizards at considerable risk.  It is no surprise to find this volume opening with Harry succumbing to severe depression, hiding in his basement laboratory desperately seeking a cure for Susan's vampire curse, while his life gradually crumbles around him.  Nothing is worse than a guilt filled wizard who has given up on housecleaning.<br />Harry's life being what it is, in no time at all things get very much worse.  First, a little old lady turns into a ghoul and nearly eats him, then Queen Mab of the Faerie's Winter Court informs him that she now holds his debt, and then the White Council of the wizards comes to Chicago to have a wee chat with their most wayward member.  The only way Harry can avoid becoming toast is to make a deal with (you guessed) Queen Mab herself.  This will provide the wizards have another option besides offering Harry up as a blood bag.  Mab doesn't want much, she just needs Harry to find out who killed the Summer Knight before Armageddon breaks out all over.<br />Other than some assistance from a troop of pizza eating pixies, a den of young-adult werewolves, and a few faerie may-not-wannabees, Harry is on his own in this one.  Unless you want to count the people (and not quite people) who are trying to kill him as company.  Whatever the reason for the murder was, no one wants Harry to find it.  Out of the six queens who rule Faerie, one has hired him and the other five just might kill him on sight.  Yet he must talk to them all, as well as their supporters.  Sometimes it seems that the vampires would have been a better choice.<br />I grumbled a bit about Harry's haplessness in my review of 'Grave Peril,' and 'Summer Knight' started out the same way.  Harry has this compulsion to be a hero.  And this continually gets him in trouble.  Unlike the previous volume, however, the crises of this one seem to make Harry begin to pull himself back together.  He develops enough gumption to keep him from always playing the role of victim, and this makes 'Summer Knight' a very likeable effort.  The result is an interesting story with a rich variety of characters.  A good read all around.<br />Hard-boiled, tongue-in-cheek, wizard detectives are a rare commodity, and need to be nurtured.  The dash of grittiness that Butcher used is just what is needed to keep the fantasy from becoming overblown.  Harry's spell casting is a bit too theatrical for me (everyone else waves a hand, Harry uses a wand AND a staff, as well as shouting in Latin).  But a wizard has to do what a wizard has to do.  I believe that Jim Butcher has begun to show the quality of which he is capable.  This bodes well for the future of the series.wever, the crises of this one seem to make Harry begin to pull himself back together.  He develops enough gumption to keep him from always playing the role of victim, and this makes 'Summer Knight' a very likeable effort.  The result is an interesting story with a rich variety of characters.  A good read all around.<br />Hard-boiled, tongue-in-cheek, wizard detectives are a rare commodity, and need to be nurtured.  The dash of grittiness that Butcher used is just what is needed to keep the fantasy from becoming overblown.  Harry's spell casting is a bit too theatrical for me (everyone else waves a hand, Harry uses a wand AND a staff, as well as shouting in Latin).  But a wizard has to do what a wizard has to do.  I believe that Jim Butcher has begun to show the quality of which he is capable.  This bodes well for the future of the series.	2002-09-16
1409080:US	53082946	RDLJIAIBZWMOI	1569714827	961857007	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Ring of Fire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Night in Lacquered Armor	This story is set in the second season, shortly after Angel returns to being Angelus.  We find Buffy and Giles each trying to deal with their separate losses and still focus on the task fate has set them.  This time Angelus has managed to steal a set of Samurai armor once worn by Kelgor, a powerful demon lord.  If the armor can be returned to Kelgor's corpse, the demon will resurrect and raise an army of the dead.  Yet another apocalypse for the Scooby gang to stop.<br />Naturally, Kelgor's body is entombed in Sunnydale, and it is no surprise that Angelus, along with Spike and Dru, is intent on finding it.  I've never been quite sure why Angelus always wants to end the world (or rid it of humans), but you certainly can count on him trying.  I'm glad he is Angel's demon, and not mine.  Kelgor, once wakened, turns out to have an agenda all his own.  Kendra also appears in this story, showing a bit more attitude than she did on the TV series.  It is a shame that Whedon did away with her so quickly.  But then there would have been no Faith.<br />This is one of the few BTVS trade paperbacks that actually is an original story.  Doug Petrie, a rare contributor to the comic series is the writer.  Ryan Sook, also know for his work on 'Spike and Dru' is the artist.  Sook's style is quite interesting, but nothing like the high sex appeal work for which Cliff Richards and Hector Gomez are noted.  He is a little bit more comic-like and impressionistic, and may take a little getting used to, but his artwork complements rather than competes with the story.<br />There is something disjointed about the way the story unfolds.  I do not know whether to blame the writer or artist, but events don't quite follow one from the other.  Graphic stories seem to have a higher tolerance for this sort of thing than the other Buffy media, but it interferes with what is otherwise an interesting tale.  As these stories go, 'Ring of Fire' is a bit short, and good use could have been made of an additional 10 or so pages.  As such, it falls short of the drama of 'The Dust Waltz,' the other original trade paperback.  But if it lacks quintessential inspiration, it has many features of interest.  The reader will find Kendra's appearance and the extended play given Spike and Dru worthwhile.itional 10 or so pages.  As such, it falls short of the drama of 'The Dust Waltz,' the other original trade paperback.  But if it lacks quintessential inspiration, it has many features of interest.  The reader will find Kendra's appearance and the extended play given Spike and Dru worthwhile.	2002-09-14
1412785:US	53082946	R3KCQI3YBX8VTO	0312282621	204954863	The Pillow Book of Lady Wisteria (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Revenge is a Dish Best Eaten Cold	This is the seventh of Laura Joh Rowland's stories about Sano Ichiro, the Shogun's Most Honorable Investigator of Events, Situations, and People.  It follows the events of its predecessor, 'Black Lotus,' by only three months, set in December of 1693.  At this time, the repercussions of Sano's assault on the Black Lotus Temple on his relationship with his wife Reiko are still unresolved.  In this unsure state, Sano finds himself facing the task of investigating a noble murder in the Yoshiwara pleasure quarter.  There is the utmost urgency because the victim is Lord Mitsuyoshi, the Shogun's heir, and the investigation carries with it much personal risk of social disgrace.<br />The crime is complicated with a lack of clear evidence.  There are many who could have committed the crime but at first, no one is willing to be caught up in the Shogun's thirst for vengeance.  Later, all too many people see this as an opportunity to seek their own advantage with invented accusations, manufactured evidence, and bald-faced lies.  All Sano really knows is that Mitsuyoshi was killed with the hairpin of a woman attendant of the courtesan, Lady Wisteria.  This lady is missing, and there seems no way to track her down.  Worse, Sano was once Wisteria's lover and he fears that Reiko will find out.<br />To make the matter as complicated as possible, Hoshina, the Chief Police Commissioner and beloved of Chamberlain Yanagisawa, chooses this case to mount his own offensive at Sano, who he perceives as a threat to his own and his lover's position.  The political maneuvering that surrounds Sano's investigation threatens his completely undoing.  If he cannot find the real murderer, Sano and Reiko may fall victim to the suspicions planted in the ailing Shogun's mind.<br />The delicate balance between Sano and Reiko is an important sub-text for the novel.  She has lost much confidence since her opposition to her husband in the 'Black Lotus' affair nearly undermined his ability to solve a difficult crime.  She is an unusually assertive woman for this time in Japan, and Sano needs her investigative skills.  She consents, but does not know if this is an opportunity for healing or disaster.  She too must deal with the almost impermeable political atmosphere of the Edo Castle as she threads her way through the case's countless false leads.<br />Rowland seems to have a tremendous grasp of live in Seventeenth Century Japan.  However, the oppressive and sometimes chaotic appearance of the Edo social system is almost too grim, as if over-exaggerated.  Justice seems to be defined as the will of whoever happens to have the upper hand at that particular time.  Many of Rowland's plots depend on this device, and how Sano must overcome almost random obstacles, that often are not a direct part of the case.  The author is a very fine writer, but after seven volumes of this kind of frustration, it is no wonder that Sano threatens to quit his job and flee to a saner world.  For the first time reader this will be less noticeable, but regulars may find that there is a bit too much political nail biting.<br />Even so, this is a very enjoyable book.  Certainly, Rowland is one of the few writers who put as much effort into the interrelations of her of her characters as she does in her ornate plots.  Most Japanophiles will welcome the insights into Japanese life.  All of this makes 'The Pillow Book' a more rewarding experience than many period mystery stories.lt crime.  She is an unusually assertive woman for this time in Japan, and Sano needs her investigative skills.  She consents, but does not know if this is an opportunity for healing or disaster.  She too must deal with the almost impermeable political atmosphere of the Edo Castle as she threads her way through the case's countless false leads.<br />Rowland seems to have a tremendous grasp of live in Seventeenth Century Japan.  However, the oppressive and sometimes chaotic appearance of the Edo social system is almost too grim, as if over-exaggerated.  Justice seems to be defined as the will of whoever happens to have the upper hand at that particular time.  Many of Rowland's plots depend on this device, and how Sano must overcome almost random obstacles, that often are not a direct part of the case.  The author is a very fine writer, but after seven volumes of this kind of frustration, it is no wonder that Sano threatens to quit his job and flee to a saner world.  For the first time reader this will be less noticeable, but regulars may find that there is a bit too much political nail biting.<br />Even so, this is a very enjoyable book.  Certainly, Rowland is one of the few writers who put as much effort into the interrelations of her of her characters as she does in her ornate plots.  Most Japanophiles will welcome the insights into Japanese life.  All of this makes 'The Pillow Book' a more rewarding experience than many period mystery stories.	2002-09-11
1416957:US	53082946	R3V3683HU2XPXZ	1569717508	806271002	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 12: Ugly Little Monsters	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Opening Pandora's Box	This new Buffy trade paperback, a reprise of BTVS comics #39 through #42, opens with 'Night of a Thousand Vampires.'  Buffy is deep in the midst of grieving the loss of her mother.  Meanwhile, across Sunnydale, another mother plots revenge for the loss of her daughter, whose voodoo magic put her in conflict with Buffy, and finally caused her death.  Originally intending to fill the night with vampires, the spell is triggered too early, forcing Buffy to rouse from her own grief to undo the damage another's has done.  This introductory tale (from #39) takes up only a quarter of the book, leaving the rest of the space for a major piece of grand theater.<br />The title story is about the inexplicable appearance if a set of Avendshrook demons, impish creatures that feed on anger and jealousy.  There influence sets the entire Scooby gang at odds.  Sort of a divide and conquer approach.  The Avendshrook may not be able to do much physical damage, but they can make you miserable while World War III is breaking out around you.  Anya and Willow are hissing at each other, Xander thinks Tara is behind the infestation, and Spike (poor Spike!) is perpetually getting thrashed by Buffy.  If someone doesn't figure out what to do, vampires will be the least of Buffy's issues.<br />While Buffy is not always great at temper management, this is the first Buffy comic series where everyone is out of control.  It is interesting to see our favorite group of misfits act out a whole theme and variations on jealousy and anger.  Even though everyone is so deadly serious, this is still a very funny story.  Surprisingly, it is Spike, normally the really bad guy, who shows the most character.  As we know, Spike is maturing throughout the fifth season, and this shows in Fassbender and Pascoe's writing.  Cliff Richards and friends, as usual, wield the pencils and inks with their usual brilliance.  A short addendum displays the cover work of Jeff Matsuda.	2002-09-07
1420128:US	53082946	RE8UD24YCLT2T	0743427122	12281851	The Journals of Rupert Giles: Volume 1 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Father Figuring	I only have a small handful of these novelizations from the Buffy TV series.  The primary reason for my lack of interest is simply that it is rarely the case that the short story captures the aura of the show.  With the DVD's gradually appearing, it takes less effort to watch the show than it does to read the written version.<br />There are some cases where this isn't completely true.  Some authors (notably Chris Golden and Nancy Holder) use the opportunity to flesh out the characters and give the reader a deeper sense of the forces in play.  Also, there are cases where one wants to know the contents of an important show and doesn't want to wait for the DVD.  This latter is the reason for my decision to read 'The Journals...\\"<br />The story in point is \\"Helpless\\" where Giles deliberately cancels out Buffy's powers so that she can take a 'Cruciamentum' - a do or die test the Watchers put a Slayer through on her eighteenth birthday.  In essence, the Slayer is trapped with a strong vampire and must use her wits to overcome it.  Only in this case the vampire, Kralik, manages to get free.  After turning one watcher and eating another, Kralik sets out after Buffy's mother.  The slayer, betrayed by her own watcher must find a way out.<br />Holder does a great job of bringing across the inner characterization.  Giles' agonizing and final rebellion against anything that might hurt Buffy redeems him from his betrayal.  Surprisingly, Holder also manages to make Quentin, the head slayer, just enough more understandable, which adds to the intensity.<br />The other stories are handled equally well.  'A New Man' is set on Buffy's nineteenth birthday, with Giles feeling more than a bit useless.  Buffy has a new boyfriend in Riley and someone else to admire in Professor Maggie Walsh.  Giles is having a tough time letting go, and the sudden entrance of Ethan Rayne with a less that tasteful gift for Giles that leaves the ex-librarian dependent on Spike, of all people.<br />The last story, 'Blood Ties,' is set on Buffy's twentieth birthday, in the middle of Glory's search for the key - Dawn.  This is the episode when Dawn discovers that she is not really human and goes through a complete identity crisis even as Glory is tracking her down.  Buffy must stage a wild hunt of her own to keep Dawn from being used and erased.  Holder does a good job of taking the reader from irritation at Dawn's less attractive personality traits to sympathy will a lonely person who does not know who she really is.<br />All three of these stories center on Giles feelings about Buffy during each of three very difficult birthdays.  They demonstrate the tender nature of their feelings for each other as they shift from watcher and slayer to slayer and true father/friend.  Nancy Holder does this sort of work as well as anyone can, taking a great deal of care to stay within the bounds of the show while deepening the overall experience.  As such, this is worthwhile and entertaining reading.  If you haven't seen one or more of these tales, this is recommended reading.ory, 'Blood Ties,' is set on Buffy's twentieth birthday, in the middle of Glory's search for the key - Dawn.  This is the episode when Dawn discovers that she is not really human and goes through a complete identity crisis even as Glory is tracking her down.  Buffy must stage a wild hunt of her own to keep Dawn from being used and erased.  Holder does a good job of taking the reader from irritation at Dawn's less attractive personality traits to sympathy will a lonely person who does not know who she really is.<br />All three of these stories center on Giles feelings about Buffy during each of three very difficult birthdays.  They demonstrate the tender nature of their feelings for each other as they shift from watcher and slayer to slayer and true father/friend.  Nancy Holder does this sort of work as well as anyone can, taking a great deal of care to stay within the bounds of the show while deepening the overall experience.  As such, this is worthwhile and entertaining reading.  If you haven't seen one or more of these tales, this is recommended reading.	2002-09-04
1420610:US	53082946	R3H9GJU5D649F4	1569714363	238285397	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 3: Uninvited Guests	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Welcome to the Party	This trade paperback includes the stories from issues 4 through 7 of the BTVS comic series.  This firmly cements the tradition of reissuing the comic stories under paperback cover with better quality paper, sometimes including an extra tale or art feature added in.  This may seem mercenary, but it is a way for people who do not have access to the comics to keep up with another source of Buffy stories.<br />On the whole, the comic tales are well written and illustrated, and these are no exception.  They do focus more on feminine pulchritude though, in the stylized fashion typical of comic illustration.  The artwork in this issue is all done by Hector Gomez and Sandu Florea.  While the work is good, the characters are a bit too stylized compared to the actual actors.  I prefer Cliff Richards and Joe Pimentel, or Joe Bennett and Rick Ketcham<br />White Christmas - When Buffy finds herself without the resources to buy a new dress for the Christmas dance she overrides Giles misgivings and gets a job at the Popsicle Parlor.  Little did she know that the owner has found an entirely new way to chill out.<br />Happy New Year - Giles is more than perturbed when he discovers that the latest costumer for the school library is a hellhound bent on evening out an old score.  Buffy steps in and nearly loses Willow.<br />New Kid on the Block - Buffy has a new friend - Cynthia.  They hatch the idea for an all out slumber party that turns severely spooky when the pizza delivery tried to eat the party.<br />As always the trade paperbacks are all art and action, but they retain the basic human values of the show.  The lack of superhero pomposity is one of the endearing things about the entire Buffy tradition.  So order a pizza and settle in for a fun evening's reading.	2002-09-03
1423380:US	53082946	RABLUIP8R0W8A	0964479648	828521008	Learn to Play Go, Vol. 4: Battle Strategies	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	Less Organized, More Thoughtful	This is currently the last of four books written by Janice Kim and Jeong Soo-hyun.  The first two volumes are designed to take a newcomer to the game of Go and help them achieve a modest but significant level of competence.  The third volume is best suited to the player who has achieved some comfort with hand-to-hand combat and is ready to approach the more complex tactical and strategic levels of the game.  This volume focuses on the middle game, where territory is truly lost or gained.  A player must walk a tightrope between strategy and tactics in this phase while balancing attack and defense.<br />There is so much going on the board during the middle game that it is genuinely difficult to write a book that teaches more than a single facet of playing the middle game.  This can make studying frustrating.  What Kim and Soo-hyun have done is written an introduction to the middle game that, while it does not dig deep into the layers of complexity, provides a framework whereby the student can determine where best to focus.  In doing so, they have achieved something unique.<br />The first half of the book focuses on the middle game itself.  It opens with a section on invasion and reduction, followed by further material on battle strategies, attack, and defense.  The second half discusses life and death.  This includes the making of living shapes, the art of killing groups of stones, and handling capturing races.  There is also a very good discussion on Ko fighting which goes into surprising detail.  As is true of the entire series, the discussion is easy to understand, and examples are plentiful.<br />I should point out that the apparent organization of the book is a bit deceptive.  The nature of the material is such that some serendipity is inevitable.  Discussion of principles is mixed in with a lesson about a particular attack or tesuji.  As such, this book needs to be read several times to get all of its contents fixed in one's mind.  Some might consider this a fault, but I know of almost no other book that sets out to cover what this one does without falling victim to the same problem.  For the player who understands that most improvement comes from hard work, this book is a real blessing.  Highly recommended.ault, but I know of almost no other book that sets out to cover what this one does without falling victim to the same problem.  For the player who understands that most improvement comes from hard work, this book is a real blessing.  Highly recommended.	2002-08-31
1423445:US	53082946	R1IG0L5NBZOGIB	0785109110	58947922	Elektra & Wolverine: The Redeemer	Books	5	38	38	N	Y	Grace vs. Power	I have to wonder how many readers were attracted to this graphic novel by Greg Rucka's story about Elektra and Wolverine, and how many found it while looking for the works of Yoshitaka Amano, the remarkable Japanese Illustrator who has fascinated a generation.  I am one of the latter.  I discovered Amano's work, mostly through manga and the anime that he has inspired, and have been a follower ever since.  Even a short search reveals that Amano is an artist who can shift from medium to medium, across many genres.<br />While not unknown in the U.S., Amano is under represented here, and his work is a rare treat.  When I discovered the availability of this book, I quickly acquired it.  And was promptly delighted.  The artist's sensual elegance is a perfect match for Elektra Natchios, giving the beautiful assassin an eerie, deadly sexuality.  For Logan, the Wolverine, Amana uses a slightly different style that makes him a menacing study in contrast with the more formal structure of the woman ninja.  This is a worthwhile sampling of Yoshitaka Amano's work.<br />The book opens with an assassination gone wrong.  Elektra carries out the job, but the killing is witnessed by the victim's young daughter.  Elektra manages a spectacular escape, but knows that the girl, Avery, represents a risk to her own safety that must be remedied.  Torn by this problem, she sets about the task of kidnapping the daughter, still not sure of what she must do.  Logan, on retreat from civilization, is pressured into protecting Avery, bringing him into direct conflict with the deadly ninja.  But much more is at stake than the life of the girl.  Logan and Elektra find the sides are not as sharply drawn as they first appear.<br />This is a complex story of shifting allegiances, betrayal, and hidden agendas.  While not very long, it brings out facets of both Elektra's and Wolverine's character than are less visible in their comic book origins.  The tale is a haunting backdrop to Amano's illustration, which focuses on the interior isolation of both these characters.  They can only partially cross their personal boundaries, displacing any feelings for each other into a growing connection to Avery.  This drives both the story and the fine artwork.  Hopefully, this is a promise of things to come.hich focuses on the interior isolation of both these characters.  They can only partially cross their personal boundaries, displacing any feelings for each other into a growing connection to Avery.  This drives both the story and the fine artwork.  Hopefully, this is a promise of things to come.	2002-08-31
1423954:US	53082946	R1MSHJQGVOJAEP	1569713545	958449928	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 2: The Remaining Sunlight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Welcome to the Holidays - Hellmouth Style.	Many of us tend to write off the BTVS comic series as simple spin-offs of the television show.  The truth is that they are a creative force of their own and are composed of their own original stories.  Of course, the comic style is far more action oriented than either the Buffy novels or even the show itself, but these are quite good and deserve some attention.  For those people who do not have ready access to the comics themselves, these graphic books are a convenient way to experience this side of Buffy without the embarrassment of having a comic book fall out of your briefcase.<br />'The Remaining Sunlight' is a collection of the first three Buffy tales to appear in the comic series and an extra tale (possible from an issue of Dark Horse Presents).  The tales are based in the Fall of the third season.  Much of the early artwork in this series comes from the pencil and pen of Joe Bennett and Rick Ketcham, who together have a very crisp and balanced style.  Add in the writing of Andi Watson and you have a attractive combination.<br />Wu-Tang Fang - Buffy and the gang run into some kung fu vampires on the way to the Bronze and are threatened by a shadowy figure in a straw hat.  A vampire is eating the black belts of Sunnydale.<br />Halloween - On the night before Halloween Willow vanishes.  Could some party vamps have picked her up for an appetizer?<br />Cold Turkey - Buffy has to do Thanksgiving shopping and a vengeful fang-face decides that stuffed slayer is the perfect holiday dinner.<br />MacGuffins - Buffy gets a present from Giles - a test in the shape of two troublemaking green critters (this story is by J.L. Van Meter with pencilwork by Luke Ross).	2002-08-31
1424211:US	53082946	R1W7JXDW9GYLLX	1885173679	342386384	Murder for Beltene: A Beltene Family Mystery	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Welsh Conundrums	Transplant an extremely (make that very extremely) long-lived Welsh family to the far north of Michigan and have them spend the next two centuries settling in until they have a county all their own.  Throw in a serial killer who thinks he is a vampire undertaker, and you have the basic material for Sandra Brewer's first mystery novel, 'Murder for Beltene.'  You can blame the first part on Grandmama.  She performed a Druid sacrifice in 71 AD and in doing so founded the Beltene family.  Now they are here in the U.S., and anxious to preserve their anonymity.<br />Rhiannon Beltene, as the eldest unchanged family member, is the temporal head of the Beltene clan.  A task for which she has little liking.  What Rhiannon does like to do is write vampire fiction, as which she does extremely well.  Unfortunately, our serial killer has decided to leave Rhiannon a set of blood-drained corpses as gifts.  Not only does this attract the unwelcome presence of the tabloids, but now Rhiannon must also deal with the new sheriff of Brennan County.  Daniel Thorpe is not an overly difficult man, but he has not been in the Beltene realm long enough to be properly Welcomed (make that bespelled), and is thus denied access to information that would help him to solve the case.<br />Rhiannon's problem is managing a family of rowdy characters, solving the problem of Daniel Thorpe, and keeping the family secret from becoming front-page news.  Sheriff Thorpe's problem is finding a serial killer who produces bloodless corpses out of nowhere.  The reader's challenge is dealing with a magic besprinkled mystery story without drowning in a welter of Welsh forenames.  There are a few moments when this becomes a cozy tale for the terminally tongue twisted.<br />Do not get me wrong!  Given the relative impossibility of the basic premise of Brewer's story, this is still genuinely interesting and enjoyable fiction.  This is an intentionally humorous story, and the Welsh overload simply makes it more fun.  Fortunately, Brewer provides and extensive list of characters, with pronunciation.  Maps are supplied as well, but all to no avail.  The story is a good deal more about the Beltene family and the town of Sevyrn than it is about the killings.  The only real flaw is that Brewer is a bit too fond of red herrings.  This tale screams 'first of a series,' and I am looking forward to further adventures among the Druids of Northern Michigan.ortunately, Brewer provides and extensive list of characters, with pronunciation.  Maps are supplied as well, but all to no avail.  The story is a good deal more about the Beltene family and the town of Sevyrn than it is about the killings.  The only real flaw is that Brewer is a bit too fond of red herrings.  This tale screams 'first of a series,' and I am looking forward to further adventures among the Druids of Northern Michigan.	2002-08-30
1426398:US	53082946	R3V7XRTI3FD3RN	074342736X	619699531	Little Things (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	Bite Sized	Here we are in the fifth season and Buffy is trying to be a step in mom to Dawn and the world's only working Slayer at the same time.  Dawn's grades are suffering, and the Scooby team steps in to help her study for a history test.  This provides enough distractions that Buffy nearly misses one of Sunnydale's more peculiar invasions.  The new, conscientious Spike manages to get her attention long enough to show here a pair of recent corpses with the strangest bite marks...<br />Imagine if you will a group of cute little pixies (complete with glamour and glow) who will totally captivate you.  Or rather, that's what they do until the fangs come out and they start to munch on your bloodstream.  These mischievous little critters also happen to be fairies from your worst nightmare.  Moesta creates an entirely new kind of fairy tale.  As Buffy says, \\"Welcome to Tinkerhell.\\"<br />It turns out that Anya was instrumental in the making of these tiny fanged people some 500 years ago.  While their appearance in Sunnydale is pure coincidental, one sight of Xander's favorite retired vengeance demon is all the pixies need to become fixated on getting their own vengeance.  Buffy to the rescue, and she quickly finds out that slaying several hundred micro-vampires is a task that requires the ingenuity of the entire team.  Xander sets a new high mark for inventive slaying with his invention of pixie ping-pong.<br />Rebecca Moesta is new to Buffy novels, but she catches on quite quickly.  She does overdo Willow's ending everything in 'y' thingy, nearly making the witch insufferably cute.  At one point she actually has Willow saying, \\"We've all noticed you've kind of been not so much with the perkiness of slayering.\\"  Sheesh!  English lies dying by the wayside.<br />Other than this particular fetish the characters ring true, and the plot moves along swiftly.  Most readers will enjoy the extended focus on Anya and Buffy's much-avoided visit to the dentist.  Moesta is a writer who prefers to throw a lot at the reader and work in quick jabs.  This is quite a change from the recent fiction that has been written from the fifth season, and is quite entertaining.  Perhaps this isn't the pinnacle of Buffy lit, but it is well worth pursuing.ers to throw a lot at the reader and work in quick jabs.  This is quite a change from the recent fiction that has been written from the fifth season, and is quite entertaining.  Perhaps this isn't the pinnacle of Buffy lit, but it is well worth pursuing.	2002-08-28
1430949:US	53082946	R1QRQSBF3MF0B0	156971486X	444914701	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Supernatural Defense Kit	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Where's the Stake?	Occasionally, one has to be amazed by the devious minds of the folks who inhabit marketing departments.  It is no secret that they want us fans to spend our hard earned cash reserves on all things Buffy.  Especially books, comics, figures, and paraphernalia.  The &quot;Supernatural Defense Kit,&quot; however, is proof of the presence of the demonic somewhere deep in the catacombs of Dark Horse Comics.<br />The kit consists of a perfectly serviceable cross and chain (the golden cross of belief), a copy of the ring that Angel gave to Buffy as a token of his love (the Claddagh ring of strength and friendship), and a wee vial of water with real silver foil in it (the shimmering holy water of fortitude).  And, best of all, a hardbound copy of &quot;The Final Cut,&quot; a story originally from BTVS comic #8, to which a great deal has been added.  Perhaps they should have retitled it &quot;The Director's Cut.&quot;  All of this comes in a slipcase designed to make removing the contents something only a slayer could do.<br />The shimmering holy water is very well sealed, to prevent idle sipping, and the usually obligatory stake has been left out.  Which makes this kit equally safe for both the youngest and the oldest of overenthusiastic Buffy fans.  This is all in good fun, of course.  I think the Claddagh ring is a nice touch, reminding us that the theme of Buffy is not all violence and vampire dust.  Loyal friendship and commitment play their parts as well.	2002-08-24
1434181:US	53082946	R3RLTSOYV6TO59	0786015004	31468867	The Fixer	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	Secret Agent Vampire	Each time I think that I have seen every possible variation on the idea of vampires, someone comes along to prove me wrong.  I have seen monster vampires, sex object vampires, vampires with and without souls, vampire gangsters and detectives.  However, this is my first secret agent.  Not that vampires would not be well suited for sneaking around and doing wet work.  But, Jon Merz has gone one step further and created a whole new breed of vampires descended from their own personal missing link.<br />Lawson is a fixer, an agent of the Vampire Council.  His job is enforcing the rules that keep humans from becoming aware of the pointy teeth people.  In Merz's world, vampires are another genetic strain related to human.  They have the traditional teeth and a yen for small quantities of whole blood.  They are more powerful than humans are, live longer, and must be killed by the standard spike and behead method.  All other bets are off.  Sunlight, holy water, and garlic do not faze them.  They have reflections, and for the most part, they cannot make vampires out of humans.  And, they live in little suburban communities, go to vampire schools and grow up to do vampire jobs.<br />Well, most vampires to that.  Unfortunately for Lawson, a rogue vampire named Cosgrove is back in Boston and is eating his way through the local population.  Lawson's assignment is to terminate Cosgrove.  Unexpectedly, he finds himself allied with a human ex-KGB assassin by the name of Talya.  For Lawson this introduces a serious problem - the Council does not permit vampires to fall in love with humans.  Lawson's other partner is Zero, another vampire and an old friend.  Zero helps Lawson discover that Cosgrove not only wants to lunch on people, he is hatching a plot to destroy the council and rule the world.<br />This is the first time I have encountered a well written, but genuinely silly book.  The unflagging plot is a high camp hardboiled spy thriller.  The vampire lifestyle Merz proposes extraordinarily impossible, for, if vampires were indistinguishable from humans and had even this small set of powers, they would genuinely rule the world.  Making the council unnecessary.  We humans would never have never been a contender.  An odd feature of Merz's writing style is that nobody, not one person, has a first and last name.  Without fail, men are referred to by their last name, and ladies by their first.<br />This goes on and one without end.  I have no idea whether Merz is being intentionally facetious or if he thought this was serious writing.  Actually he is a good writer, but the material he is playing with is short of a full deck.  Worse, Merz cheats on his own premises, making the story's plot sometimes advance without even a nod to rhyme or reason.  Since it inadvertently lampoons two popular genre to perfection, it has unexpected good qualities.  As a result, I am forced to give it a better, or possibly worse, rating than it deserves.  If you are a forgiving reader, you will have fun with this.  However, if you expect your genre novels to stay in genre, I suggest you pass this one by.aordinarily impossible, for, if vampires were indistinguishable from humans and had even this small set of powers, they would genuinely rule the world.  Making the council unnecessary.  We humans would never have never been a contender.  An odd feature of Merz's writing style is that nobody, not one person, has a first and last name.  Without fail, men are referred to by their last name, and ladies by their first. <br />This goes on and one without end.  I have no idea whether Merz is being intentionally facetious or if he thought this was serious writing.  Actually he is a good writer, but the material he is playing with is short of a full deck.  Worse, Merz cheats on his own premises, making the story's plot sometimes advance without even a nod to rhyme or reason.  Since it inadvertently lampoons two popular genre to perfection, it has unexpected good qualities.  As a result, I am forced to give it a better, or possibly worse, rating than it deserves.  If you are a forgiving reader, you will have fun with this.  However, if you expect your genre novels to stay in genre, I suggest you pass this one by.	2002-08-21
1434399:US	53082946	R34JD40B7SDSK3	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	5	158	172	N	Y	An Indomitable Young Lady	Neil Gaiman has shown as admirable knack for fiction for young adults and children as he has shown in adult fiction.  I am tempted to attribute this to his experience writing graphic stories, but it is really something more than that.  It is an ability to touch the sources of wonder and fear without the necessity of excessive gore and grimness.  Not that bad things don't happen in Gaiman's tales, but they tend to go right to the heart, instead of the stomach.<br />This tale is about a remarkable young woman named Coraline (who remains polite, even when you call her Caroline).  Recently she and her parents have moved into one of those wondrous old houses that are sometimes converted into flats.  Both Coraline's parents work at home, and sometimes she feels a bit ignored and bored.  Nevertheless, she is encouraged to explore and so she does.  First her neighbors.  The Misses Spink and Forcible are two retired thespians who live together in the bottom flat, and up above is Mr. Bobo, who is an avid trainer of mice.  Having run out of people, Coraline investigates the premises.  Her flat is most unusual; it has 21 windows and 14 doors.  Only one door is locked, and that only leads to a brick wall.<br />Well, most of the time it does.  On some occasions, it opens up on a world just like this one, where Coraline finds her other mother, other father, and even other neighbors.  At first it seems quite nice, people pay more attention to one there, the toys are better, and, of all things, the cat talks.  Soon Coraline finds all is not quite as it seems.  Everyone has buttons for eyes, her other mother has strange hands that seem to have a life of their own, and there are a remarkable number of rats.  In fact, if you dig deep enough, things are really most horrible.  Coraline has much to do to make things come around right.<br />With young people's fiction, adults are often driven to worry about what the stories teach and if they will have ill effects on their child.  Coraline's plight, being stranded away from her parents amidst a world full of thinly veiled threats may be uncomfortable for a sensitive child.  Yet things work out well in the end, and Coraline is an excellent role model, who understands what courage truly is and is in touch with what is really important to her.  Equally, this is a work of art and it is never too early to encourage children to develop a sense of what good writing really is.<br />Fortunately, this really is a book that an adult can enjoy as well.  And I can't help but think that it might stimulate some interesting family discussions.  I would recommend it to anyone who believes that children can benefit from new and unusual reading experiences.  I also should mention the delightful illustrations from the pen of Dave McKean, a long time designer and illustrator for Neil Gaiman's graphic work.s plight, being stranded away from her parents amidst a world full of thinly veiled threats may be uncomfortable for a sensitive child.  Yet things work out well in the end, and Coraline is an excellent role model, who understands what courage truly is and is in touch with what is really important to her.  Equally, this is a work of art and it is never too early to encourage children to develop a sense of what good writing really is.<br />Fortunately, this really is a book that an adult can enjoy as well.  And I can't help but think that it might stimulate some interesting family discussions.  I would recommend it to anyone who believes that children can benefit from new and unusual reading experiences.  I also should mention the delightful illustrations from the pen of Dave McKean, a long time designer and illustrator for Neil Gaiman's graphic work.	2002-08-21
1435070:US	53082946	RU3TVM0SS0DNE	096447963X	531408252	Learn to Play Go, Vol. 3: The Dragon Style	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	Learning to Read	Having worked through the first two volumes of this series, the enterprising young player is anxious to start playing Go and stop reading about it.  In addition, for some time and many players, that is sufficient.  Certainly one has learned enough to live happily in the moment of conflict and capture, more than many players do.  With concentration, comes a fair share of the victories and steady improvement.<br />Alas, this is not a perfect world.  Go is a vast game, and few ever completely understand it.  If a player is to improve, a time will come when he or she must study the game itself if they are to develop.  Subtle bad habits of play become self destructive when facing stronger players.  These latter also seem to have a magical ability to pull victory out of despair even under handicapping.<br />Now is the time to address the third volume 'The Dragon Style.'  Despite the magical title, the purpose of this volume is to make a player aware if good and bad habits, and to begin to teach the fundamentals of strategy.  To learn now one must begin to read.  Read positions, read the games of others, sometimes even try to read minds.  The majority of this book walks a play through several games in detail, carefully explaining the purposes of each move.<br />Really, this isn't hard work.  With enough information to understand what each player is trying to do much can be learned from this study,  It is, after all, far easier to see the whole game when it isn't the one you are playing right now.  The problem, of course, is finding a source of games that are annotated intelligibly and enjoyably.  Janice Kim and Jeong Soo-hyun provide some good examples.  These will provide the basis for studying others.<br />There is nothing especially draconic about the 'dragon style.'  It is sensible, thoughtful play that considers everything.  Of course, this is easier to say than to accomplish.  This book provides a good start along the path of reading games.  If it has a failing, it is that it does not provide a list of good sources of games for study.  Many are available, but not all analyses are suitable for all levels of players.it is that it does not provide a list of good sources of games for study.  Many are available, but not all analyses are suitable for all levels of players.	2002-08-20
1436559:US	53082946	R840CQ3ZHCLMA	1563891069	632343866	The Sandman Fables and Reflections	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Legends and Icons	Some recent contact with the more 'popular' versions of the graphic story aroused my curiosity and, when I happened on a copy of this series of stories by Neil Gaiman, I decided to take the plunge.  I am a fan of Gaiman's novels, so I felt secure in the choice, although I did not quite know what to expect.  Comic books, no matter how long and artful, are still a delivery mechanism for what is primarily plot and action.  Gaiman, however, has gone several steps beyond this simplistic viewpoint.  This is a cross between serious literature and fine design work.<br />Perhaps the title of the book provides some clues to the over-arching themes of these stories.  However, there is more at hand than the conflict between reality and fantasy that is to be expected in anything whose main character is the bringer of dreams.  In 'Fear of Falling,' a young actor finds his courage in a frightening dream.  And in 'Three Septembers and a January,' we are given the tale of Joshua Norton, the Emperor of the United States, who found happiness in the give of insanity.  Then it suddenly is July in revolutionary Paris.  Thermidor tells the story of a woman bearing the head of Orpheus, due to sing the song that will end one dream and begin another.<br />Next, a book shows a werewolf lost in a dream of love the path to its reality love.  In 'August,' a Roman emperor gains the secret of how to hide from his fears.  'Soft Places' finds Marco Polo wandering the desert separated from his caravan.  Or perhaps, he is only wandering in his mind.  The grand piece of the book is a lengthy retelling of the legend of Orpheus, which provides some explanation for the future wanderings of his disembodied head.  In 'Parliament of Rooks,' the arguments of Cain and Abel invade the sleep of a young child.  In the final story Haroun al Raschid, the ruler of Baghdad, bargains with the Lord of Dreams for a special kind of eternity.<br />All the stories are linked by theme and variation, as well as the presence of the Sandman.  Perhaps, intentionally, the relationships are vague and hard to pin down, using the touch of chaos to enhance the dreamlike quality.  Of course, the advantage is to the author, who needs to tell only enough to keep the reader interested.  In addition to the drawn illustrations, the book makes excellent use of digital and photographic work to enhance the effect of the stories themselves.  The overall design, the product of Dave McKean, is remarkable, enhancing instead of competing with the stories themselves.of the Sandman.  Perhaps, intentionally, the relationships are vague and hard to pin down, using the touch of chaos to enhance the dreamlike quality.  Of course, the advantage is to the author, who needs to tell only enough to keep the reader interested.  In addition to the drawn illustrations, the book makes excellent use of digital and photographic work to enhance the effect of the stories themselves.  The overall design, the product of Dave McKean, is remarkable, enhancing instead of competing with the stories themselves.	2002-08-19
1437189:US	53082946	R1OK4R60VAYGFN	0743435362	671835748	The Warslayer	Books	4	21	22	N	N	What to Do When the Script is Real	I'm not sure what I expected when I picked this book out.  Rosemary Edghill is best known to me as the author of three excellent mystery stories, starring a witch named Bast, set in contemporary New York.  These are some of my favorite mysteries.  Edghill has also written some fantasy and romance, that I liked a bit less.  'Warslayer' is something else entirely, the story of what happens when a gymnast turned television Buffy clone is kidnapped and transported to a world where evil is winning, and where the people have no idea how to defend themselves.<br />At first I thought Edghill was completely serious about the Buffy/Xena clone called Vixen the Slayer, whose real name is Gloria McArdle.  Fortunately, Gloria has no illusions about her ability to rescue the Allimir.  However, while Gloria is unfit to take on the blackhearted Warmother, the Allimir are truly incompetent in conflict.  As a result, an entire world of people has been reduced to 400 individuals who spend most of their time fleeing from badness.  When Gloria is inadvertently shanghaied by three wizards (Belegir, Englor, and Helevrin), she realizes that, if she does nothing, the world of Erchane will end with her in it.<br />Gloria (aka Glory) does better than expected, coping with bear-rats, magic swords and invisible things that burn down cities.  As she progresses from unwilling visitor to very angry defender of the Allimir, she matures as a person, coming to question some of her old values.  Unlike Buffy and Xena who change only reluctantly, Glory is willing to learn and adapt without any excess theater.  I may have started out wondering if I was going to be able to stand this jock with the dyed red hair, but in the end, I was a fan.  Glory is a hero because she doesn't try to be one.<br />Edghill, who has been a bit off-stride for the past few years, seems to have regained her powers.  Perhaps it is the return to first person narrative and the use of interior monologue.  Her writing is smooth and comfortable, and the tale told with a light, humorous touch.  I would have liked to see a bit more development in the characters around Glory, but the book holds much promise.  I have hopes that Edghill will follow through with more titles in this series.  I think you will feel the same way.comfortable, and the tale told with a light, humorous touch.  I would have liked to see a bit more development in the characters around Glory, but the book holds much promise.  I have hopes that Edghill will follow through with more titles in this series.  I think you will feel the same way.	2002-08-18
1437369:US	53082946	R1X77HZE2D336Q	0964479621	999319622	2: Learn To Play Go, Volume II: The Way of the Moving Horse	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	One Sure Step at a Time	This is the second volume in the Go teaching series authored by Janice Kim and Jeong Soo-hyun.  It takes the basic principles laid out in \\"A Master's Guide to the Ultimate Game\\" and begins to tie them together into coherent game play.  This is no trivial task, as anyone who has struggled through the first few months of Go playing will tell you.<br />Learning is a habit that a good go player has to have.  This short, easy to read volume lays the rest of the framework needed to start the process.  The authors start with an introduction to the real task of the game, claiming and achieving territory.  This is a more theoretical approach than the 'you need two eyes' approach of volume one, and, for the first time, the player is lead to looking at the whole board and the fine art of moving in a game where nothing moves.<br />This little bit of theory out of the way, the book turns to the core skills of Go playing - attack, defense, capturing, Ko fighting, hand-to-hand combat, the endgame, and the intricacies of life and death.  All of the discussions are good.  I give a special tip of the hat for the attention the authors pay to the playing of Ko's.  It is one of the marks of beginning players that they avoid these repeating capture attacks like poison.  Here the authors give enough attention to this strategy to get anyone past their doubts.<br />While this volume goes deeper than volume one, it is by no means heavily written or over analytical.  Plenty of illustrations and examples, but the chapter tests are gone.  There is a final exam though.  Almost painlessly, the beginner is eased into having a good basic concept of what Go is about.	2002-08-18
1438661:US	53082946	R18Z7VT6ZUVY0V	0743427343	178236438	Crossings (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Joystick Free Demon Chasing	When a Craulathar demon begins to collect people parts, the outcome is always bad.  Buffy and Willow are following a trail of discards in an effort to track the demon down before it works some awful spell.  Faced with a demon in the process of opening a gateway to some particularly malignant dimension, they are going to need help to shut the door.  Whom do you call when you need an expert on serious badness...? Spike!<br />Meanwhile... Xander and Anya are engrossed in a sci-fi film festival, popcorn in hand, when Robby Healdton, a gaming friend, plucks a fire axe of the walk and threatens to chop the audience into geek cutlets.  Xander to the rescue (barely).  Later, at the hospital, Xander discovers Robby isn't just acting as if he wasn't himself; he really isn't Robby at all!<br />Even more meanwhile...  Giles and Tara are in the studio audience watching Derek Traynor, a popular medium and spiritualist perform.  Suddenly Traynor makes contact with the dead spirit of another friend of Xander's who is lost in another dimension.  However, the boy still appears to in this world, alive and well!<br />The Scooby gang realize that these tangled problems are the visible loose ends of a magic that has somehow managed to convert virtual reality into a tool to subjugate the world.  Xander has disappeared, Dawn is giving Buffy a major headache, and a guitar playing New Orleans demon slayer shows up in Sunnydale with an agenda of his own.  Soon Buffy is wishing she could go back to the old 'See it, put a stake in it' days.<br />Mel Odom does a good job with this plot, but there is a lot of complex action in a very short novel.  This is his forte, but sometimes the plot is a little hard to follow in the space allotted.  Certainly, the book could easily have been longer, or there should have been one or two plot arcs less.  To be honest, I find the Buffy/Dawn conflict is a bit overworked lately.  The potential relationship between Bobby Lee Tooker (the Cajun demon duster) and Buffy never has a chance to develop with everything else going on, and he is a very interesting character.<br />I hope that this is not a trend.  What makes BTVS something else besides a monster kill-a-thon is the focus the show puts on its characters.  Books like this that are heavily action focused are in danger of drifting away from a successful formula.  All this criticism aside, the story is an active, upbeat book with some unusual twists to the use of magic.  I enjoyed reading it, and would have enjoyed another fifty pages even more.Buffy never has a chance to develop with everything else going on, and he is a very interesting character.<br />I hope that this is not a trend.  What makes BTVS something else besides a monster kill-a-thon is the focus the show puts on its characters.  Books like this that are heavily action focused are in danger of drifting away from a successful formula.  All this criticism aside, the story is an active, upbeat book with some unusual twists to the use of magic.  I enjoyed reading it, and would have enjoyed another fifty pages even more.	2002-08-17
1440094:US	53082946	R1J0AYNNNLVVY5	0964479613	238729293	001: Learn to Play Go: A Master's Guide to the Ultimate Game, Vol. 1	Books	5	92	96	N	Y	A Good Move for Beginners	This is the first book is a series of four (as of 2002) which are intended to help a potential player go from a complete beginner to a reasonable competent amateur.  This is no trivial undertaking, for the simplicity of Go's rules hide and incredible complexity of play.  Not only are bad habits hard to undo, but the gap between the lower levels of play are so large that it can be very discouraging to climb the first few hills.<br />What Janice Kim and Jeong Soo-hyun have done here is to present the central ideas of the game in a careful, step-wise manner that is readable by anyone from about nine years old on.  If a parent were willing to take the time, he or she could use this book to learn enough to teach a much younger player.  Yet the information presented is still substantial, covering the basics of life, forming territory, capturing, connecting, and Ko fighting.  I hate to admit it, but I found a thing or two in it that I had forgotten.<br />Frequent examples and questions are provided so that the reader has many opportunities to test his or her knowledge.  Little bits of Go history are provided as well.  In the back of the book is a cardboard folding board and pop out playing pieces.  These are a really too small for a playing adult, although they would make a neat lightweight traveling package for working out puzzles and playing in unexpected places.  It does allow a child to get some practice playing before then investment in a decent board and pieces it made.<br />I have been recommending this series to people for some time, since really good texts for beginners are rare.  However, I have never taken the time to read them from cover to cover.  Having done so, I am quite impressed.  I do think that at one should buy at least the second volume in this series as well.  This book reads very quickly, and one needs a bit more for a fair start.  One thing is certain, it would be hard to get a better start at the world's most popular board game.	2002-08-15
1441849:US	53082946	RDX0USL2ZHMUY	1569716056	33832674	Tales of the Slayers (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	51	53	N	Y	Eight Tales a Telling	I should probably start out by mentioning that this is the Dark Horse comic novel, and not 'Tales of the Slayer, Part 1' issued by Pocket Books.  While both are stories about 'ye slayers of olde,' they really are different.  So, if you want everything you will have to buy both.  If you are confused, don't feel bad, I thought I orders the other, and did all this research just so you wouldn't have to do so.<br />Of the eight stories in this collection, Joss Whedon wrote three, and the rest are all individual stars in their own right.  Amber Benson also turns up as a writer in 'The Innocent,' a story of betrayal in pre-revolutionary France.  Now that Tara is at least temporarily defunct, it appears she has great possibilities as a comic writer, with several Willow and Tara comics to her credit as well as the little showpiece she has here.  The artists involved in this effort are to numerous to catalog.  Whit the exception of Dave Stewart, no one does the same task twice.<br />The stories are in order by time, with 'Prologue' set in ancient Africa, and the finale, 'Tales,' set some time in the future.  All of the stories have a certain poignant touch, as each Slayer must come to terms with the tragic nature of their existence, their sense of community based on the Slayer's historical continuity rather than the friendships they build during their 'turn.'  Buffy (who does not appear here) truly was the only exception who formed a loyal company of friends.  This, of course, is one of the most important reasons why she has lasted through six seasons (only dying twice).<br />Readers will find themselves in Africa, England, France, Germany, the U.S., and a few places if which I'm not entirely.  All of the tales are notable.  Perhaps my two favorites were 'Sonnenblume' about a Slayer in Nazi Germany who discovers that evil has many faces, and the final story, 'Tales,' in which a Slayer (Fray) who never had a watcher rediscovers her heritage.  There is enough here for everyone to find some that are particularly meaningful.  If I have any real complaint, it is that this volume is way too short.  Everything feels abridged, especially at the very beginning when a very interesting fact about the nature of the Slayer is revealed.  Fortunately, there is more to come.to find some that are particularly meaningful.  If I have any real complaint, it is that this volume is way too short.  Everything feels abridged, especially at the very beginning when a very interesting fact about the nature of the Slayer is revealed.  Fortunately, there is more to come.	2002-08-14
1443041:US	53082946	RPTR3BMLS6MRC	044023705X	868082247	Area 51: Excalibur	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Only Two More Mountains to Climb	It has been almost two years since I read the previous volume in this series, 'The Grail.'  While these are excellent action adventures, they do not stay long to mind.  I am embarrassed to admit that, when I picked this up and started reading, I was without a clue as to what was going on.  It was rough going until I remembered the basic plot and characters, so I do not recommend this as a good starting point.  The entire series is quite good, especially if you like alien inspired paranoid plots.  So I heartily recommend going back to 'Area 51,' and inhaling the entire series.<br />These books are not heavy going.  The primary premise is that the human race owes much of its mythology to the accidental arrival of an alien race called the Airlia back in prehistoric times.  Originally, they were benevolent, but an internal rift between two leaders, Artad and Aspasia, caused sufficient chaos that the aliens took a more secretive role, influencing humankind for their own reasons, with little thought to the eventual effects on us.  The 'Area 51' series is about what happens when humans become aware enough of this interference to take action against the aliens.<br />The last several volumes have turned on various factions competing for the possession of several artifacts - the Ark (both of them), the Grail, and now Excalibur, Arthur's sword.  In the last volume Lisa Duncan, an American scientist, finds and activates the Grail.  In the short time of her exposure, she is remade into something that appears human, but which is immortal.  Unfortunately, the Grail is lost to Aphasia's forces, and Lisa returns to the U.S. to find herself and object for close scrutiny and testing.<br />As Aspasia and Artad marshal their forces in competing efforts to conquer the earth it is left to two men, American Mike Turcotte and Russian agent Yakov, each of which has a mountain to climb.  Turcotte must scale Mount Everest to pull Excalibur from its scabbard and turn on the Airlian master computer.  Yakov heads for Mount Ararat and the Ark, which is really the Airlian mother ship, which contains the master computer itself.  In the meantime, war breaks out in Korea and Taiwan, and the Pacific Fleet is nearly immobilized.  Dire straits indeed.<br />Doherty writes in a classic action oriented style.  While his language isn't stilted, the characters speak in short bursts, and introspection is a rare thing indeed.  But, the plot is complex enough to keep the reader's attention moving from one cliff hanger to the next.  Expect to enjoy the book, but as I found out, don't expect to remember it!ter.  Yakov heads for Mount Ararat and the Ark, which is really the Airlian mother ship, which contains the master computer itself.  In the meantime, war breaks out in Korea and Taiwan, and the Pacific Fleet is nearly immobilized.  Dire straits indeed.<br />Doherty writes in a classic action oriented style.  While his language isn't stilted, the characters speak in short bursts, and introspection is a rare thing indeed.  But, the plot is complex enough to keep the reader's attention moving from one cliff hanger to the next.  Expect to enjoy the book, but as I found out, don't expect to remember it!	2002-08-13
1445701:US	53082946	R2EP5RMDUIX7A4	1569717524	111918209	Angel: Long Night's Journey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Perfect End to a Perfect Mess	It seems that whenever Angel isn't leaping out of the woodwork to slaughter the bad guys, the bad guys line up to leap out of the woodwork at him.  Small wonder the vampire with a soul is as broody as he is.  Take this night.  Angel has to do some serious carjacking to break the truth out of a really ugly gang of Kryll demons.  Which truth we never quite find out, because Angel finds a child in the car's trunk and takes a time out to return young Jacob to his father.<br />On his way back, Angel finds himself waylaid by a beautiful but green Silthe, then by a truly oversized fire creature.  Think that's enough.  Stay tuned, the knight from nowhere with the sword from hell is right behind them.  Even with Wesley, Gunn, and Cordelia working overtime they are barely able to discover that someone new has moved into town.  Someone who thinks Angel has something that belongs to him.  A strange Chinese symbol finally gives Angel the clue he needs.  However, all that does is help him jump out of the frying pan and into the holy water.  Our uncapped crusader may finally have met his match.<br />Brett Matthews and Joss Whedon cooperated on the story, which is a perfect essay in perpetual action.  This is the first time I have had a close look at Mel Rubi's pencil style, which, in combination with Chris Dreier's inking makes this illustrated paperback well worth the price of admission.  The last section of the book is a set of Rubi's sketches, with commentary by Scott Alie and Brett Matthews.  The reason for their enthusiasm will quickly become obvious.  I predict that you will want to track down more of his work.	2002-08-10
1449194:US	53082946	R2TIP4R7X0JTIQ	1569717532	978638713	Angel: Strange Bedfellows and Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Vampire of Ill Repute	'Strange Bedfellows' offers an interesting mix of Angel comic lore.  The rarest piece is not from the comic series at all.  'Point of Order' is a David Fury and Ryan Sook tidbit that originally appeared in The TV Guide Ultimate Cable Magazine, of all places.  This is a four pager where Angel and the judge get to compare the size of their gavels.  'The Changeling Wife' was done for Angel #4 by Chris Golden and Eric Powell.  Our lone vampire thinks he is rescuing a woman from an abusive spouse, but quickly finds that he still doesn't understand the dynamics of human/demon relationships.<br />Golden and Powell come together again for 'Phantom Dennis,' a humorous tale of Cordelia and her invisible roommate, Dennis the poltergeist.  This one is from Angel #17.  Cordy just wants to clean up and go to bed, but Angel drops of a jar of demon heart for her to look after.  Ever thoughtful, Dennis comes to her defense when a visitor shows up for a snack and an unexpected tennis lesson.<br />The gem of the collection is the title story, which pits Angel against a vampire bordello.  When one of the ladies of the night gets a little too hungry, Angel steps in.  Angel finds unexpected help from the madam of the house.  This time it takes all of Angel's broody self-control to keep his mind on business.  Golden and Sniegoski are the writers for this episode,  while Christian Zanier once again demonstrates a hot pencil when it comes to illustrated women.<br />This is my first introduction to the illustrated Angel, and I'm quite impressed.  Dark Horse has a high quality artistic and writing staff, and has given the Angel series every bit of the attention it deserves.  Now I'm going to have to track down the other illustrated trade paperbacks.	2002-08-07
1449849:US	53082946	R2Z03NY87NX5D1	0743403649	62261357	Prowlers	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	The Slaughter in Fenway Park	I have only read a few authors who realized the possibilities of were-humans as well as were-critters.  By that, I mean animals that can appear to be human.  This is surprising in the light of the number of legends about mythical beasts that can appear human.  Chinese dragons, selkies, and the countless creatures of the fey world for starters.  So the start of Chris Golden's new series about wolf-like 'monsters' that can pass for human is a break from the usual werewolf novel.<br />The basic thesis is that these 'Prowlers' are of two attitudes.  Many have blended into human life, carefully controlling their needs to hunt and kill.  But many others long for a return to the wild, seeking human beings for sport and food.  These creatures are not bound by the full moon, and are really not magical other than their shape changing abilities.  But they are extremely powerful and almost impossible to elude.  Basically wolves on a lot of steroids.<br />When Jack Dwyer and Mollie Hatcher lose Artie Carroll, their best friend and lover, to a vicious attack, the last thing Jack expects is to find himself talking to Artie's ghost.  Not just Artie either, but other residents of the Ghostlands as well.  All victims of the Prowlers, they are warning the youthful and ill-prepared part owner of Bridget's Irish Rose Pub that unless he does something countless citizens of Boston will die.<br />Jack quickly finds the he and Mollie are the next objects of the pack's unending hunt.  Equally endangered are Jack's sister Courtney and many of their close friends.  For all of them, angered by what happened to Artie, this quickly turns into a war.  Aided by the ghosts and fighting to keep Artie's presence a secret from Mollie, Jack finds himself shifting between the Ghostlands and terra firma.<br />This is almost a completely successful novel.  Too much time is spent setting the scene for the series to come and not enough steadily building the tension.  When the action finally does kick in it does so with a vengeance.  Suddenly it is as if there is barely enough time to finish the novel.  I found the characters interesting if a little bit too much of the Boston Irish stereotype.  We get good insight to the workings of Jack's psyche, but the other characters are less well constructed.<br />Sometimes I think that Golden has spend so much time writing for pre-developed characters, such as Buffy, that he is no longer completely comfortable on his own.  And yet, Golden always managed to have enough moments of brilliance to keep pulling the rabbit out of the hat.  There is enough here to want to follow the series through at least one more volume.does so with a vengeance.  Suddenly it is as if there is barely enough time to finish the novel.  I found the characters interesting if a little bit too much of the Boston Irish stereotype.  We get good insight to the workings of Jack's psyche, but the other characters are less well constructed.  <br />Sometimes I think that Golden has spend so much time writing for pre-developed characters, such as Buffy, that he is no longer completely comfortable on his own.  And yet, Golden always managed to have enough moments of brilliance to keep pulling the rabbit out of the hat.  There is enough here to want to follow the series through at least one more volume.	2002-08-06
1453044:US	53082946	R1LF1LIQAIXDTG	0192810901	937576372	The Tain: From the Irish Epic "Tain Bo Cuailnge"	Books	5	64	67	N	Y	The men of Ulster are risen from their pangs.	This is the story of a 'tain' or cattle raid perpetrated on Ulster by Ailill and Medb, king and queen of Connacht, along with their allies from all parts of Ireland.  It is arguably the earliest surviving epic of Ireland's pre-Christian heritage.  The centerpiece of the story is the great feat of 17 year old Cuchulain, who single handedly halts the massed armies intent on seizing the brown bull of Cuailnge (and a tidy portion of the wealth of Ulster as well.<br />Due to a curse, the men of Ulster are doomed to suffer severe bouts of pain whenever they are faced with great difficulties.  So, as Ailill and Medb approach Ulster, only Cuchulain can stand and fight.  The 'Tain' and its peripheral tales are the story of Ulster's defense, first by Cuchulain, and finally by the massed men of Ulster, risen from their pangs.  Poet Thomas Kinsella's telling of this story starts with the early history of Ulster and then introduces Cuchulain, who will be the hero of many of Ulster's legends.<br />This is a remarkable effort from a literary standpoint.  Whether by Kinsella's art or the nature of the original language of the text, the \\"Tain bo Cuailnge\\" is one of the most accessible of the old epics.  The language lacks the overblown pretensions of many translations, remaining clear and understandable whether it is prose or verse.  Kinsella himself states that this is a translation, not a retelling, but the introduction leaves some doubt about the precise meaning of 'translation.'  In any case, Kinsella's efforts have made the story come to life, bringing home beautifully both the glory and tragedy of a conflict that must have decimated the fighting men of an entire country.<br />The Irish of the \\"Tain's\\" writing loved making lists.  Lists of heroes, lists of weapons, and lists of places abound.  Indeed, every time Cuchulain lists a weapon or moves about, a place in Ulster receives its name.  It is as if one of the purposes of this epic is to turn landscape into living literature.<br />Another purpose, more subtle and controversial is the defining or redefining of the place of women in Irish society.  Coming into the \\"Tain\\" the key female roles - Medb and Morrigan are not queens or goddesses, but ruler's in their own right.  But the blame for the defeat of the Connacht armies is laid clearly in Medb's head.  At the end Fergus, an exile form Ulster remarks \\"It is the usual thing for a herd let by a mare to be strayed and destroyed.\\"  This is a conflict that will play out repeatedly in Irish history.<br />One of the more delightful features of this edition is the brush drawings provided by Louis le Brocquy.  Brocquy's style recalls both cave paintings and Greek ceramic decoration.  Gradually, it wins the reader over.  His rendition of the final massing of the armies is simply stunning.  Significant credit must go to Kinsella himself, who has found a way to make ancient prosody appeal to modern ears.e.  <br />Another purpose, more subtle and controversial is the defining or redefining of the place of women in Irish society.  Coming into the \\"Tain\\" the key female roles - Medb and Morrigan are not queens or goddesses, but ruler's in their own right.  But the blame for the defeat of the Connacht armies is laid clearly in Medb's head.  At the end Fergus, an exile form Ulster remarks \\"It is the usual thing for a herd let by a mare to be strayed and destroyed.\\"  This is a conflict that will play out repeatedly in Irish history.<br />One of the more delightful features of this edition is the brush drawings provided by Louis le Brocquy.  Brocquy's style recalls both cave paintings and Greek ceramic decoration.  Gradually, it wins the reader over.  His rendition of the final massing of the armies is simply stunning.  Significant credit must go to Kinsella himself, who has found a way to make ancient prosody appeal to modern ears.	2002-08-04
1454340:US	53082946	R3QR9VUOKINIBH	1569717389	354050213	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 10: Out of the Woodwork	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Hive and Go Seek	Everyone has a little bug problem or two during the summer.  Ants in the kitchen, wasps in the picnic, they are all part of the grand scheme of things.  Ancient creatures trying to get on in a world full of Raid-bearing humans.  It only figures, though, that if Buffy were going to have an infestation problem they would be larger than life and twice as nasty.  Welcome to the summer of Buffy's fourth season.<br />Buffy has already had one confrontation with these bad news bugs during the term.  She and Riley barely managed to stop the infestation and they thought they had solved the problem.  But, that was then, and this is now.  When the ghost of a vagrant killed by a vampire puts Riley into a coma, Buffy is back on her own, and worried to distraction.  While she desperately tries to hunt down the cause of the ghosts anger the bugs show up - right in the middle of Giles date with a beautiful librarian.  Giles loses and Rebecca the cataloger disappears.<br />Now both Buffy and Giles are at their wits end.  Fortunately, the rest of the gang is there to pitch in.  Even Spike tries to do his part.  Tara and Willow find out that the insects are Urukhai, cheerfully bent on the conquest of the earth.  Even as the magical duo start to work on supernatural insecticide, it is obvious that the team is in for a tough struggle.  To or three really bad vampires are one thing, but thousands of superbugs the size of Volkswagens is an entirely different challenge.<br />This is the perfect summer graphic comic.  Lots of fiend bashing, suspense, and, if you count Giles, even some romance.  Fassbender and Pascoe once again turn out a potboiler, and Richards and Pimentel get it down beautifully on glossy paper.  Now you can worry about things that go 'chitter' in the night.	2002-08-02
1455015:US	53082946	R3OZGZ39ITM321	0843950234	676696254	Cathedral of Vampires (Marquis de Sade)	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Once Bitten, Twice Shy	Generally, I expect Vampire stories to have a strong element of horror in them.  Their nature is one that should inspire fear, not pity, and they are endowed with a set of powers that makes them efficient killers.  The successful exceptions to this are those vampires that combine humor, sex appeal, intelligence, or unexpected ethics with their grimmer nature.  Because a vampire that breaks from its essential nature really isn't a vampire any longer.  This is the major flaw of 'Cathedral of Vampire.'<br />Cecilia, a vampire, has conceived a need for vengeance for Sade's complicity in the death of her child's death.  Allied with her are Justin, a half vampire, and Marie, who has reincarnated in the dead body of Justin's mother.  Marie is actually Sade's mother-in-law, killed by him, and shares the old master's lust for pain and cruelty.  Justin has dedicated his life to helping vampire 'find peace,' a politically correct euphemism for killing them.<br />Standing against this trio of misfits is the count himself, ensconced in his French chateau, debauching and eating the nymphets of the village when he is not throwing gala bondage parties for people he generally seems to dislike.  Sade has adapted the local cathedral so that he can lock up vampires behind its walls, hence the title of the novel, and most of the story is about Cecilia's incarceration there and the efforts of Justin to free her and her fellow victims.<br />Marquis Donatian Aldonse Louis de Sade, was very much a thinker, as well as one of Frances's most famous perverts.  Rather than a man of intelligence and wit, we, we are presented with a very petty old man who takes senseless risks to sate his lust, and who spends even more time plotting petit vengeance than he does torturing the innocent.  Indeed, both he and Marie who are well over two hundred years old behave with a surprising and unconvincing lack of maturity.<br />There is something farcical about Mary Ann Mitchell's characters and her humans fare little better.  This would be acceptable if the farce was intended, but it was not.  Anne Rice, who is hardly much kinder to her casts, still treats them with a basic level of respect and dignity that is lacking here.  I have not read any of Mitchell's previous stories in this series, which are apparently better, but this one is ill conceived.  Hopefully that will be remedied in the future.re little better.  This would be acceptable if the farce was intended, but it was not.  Anne Rice, who is hardly much kinder to her casts, still treats them with a basic level of respect and dignity that is lacking here.  I have not read any of Mitchell's previous stories in this series, which are apparently better, but this one is ill conceived.  Hopefully that will be remedied in the future.	2002-08-01
1457408:US	53082946	R3BLESA5FKDYT7	1569716021	540697248	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 7: Food Chain	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ride a Dark Horse	Set in the third and fourth seasons of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, this is a medley of eight stories buy a variety of authors and illustrators.  The keynote tale is the two part 'Food Chain,' which traces the fate of a young juvenile delinquent who first runs afoul of a high school student/very bad demoness, and then, when that doesn't work out, invokes a demon who likes murdering all his friends.  Buffy, of course, to the rescue.<br />Other tales include 'The Latest Craze,' the story of what happens when owning miniature demons becomes a fad for the rich and snooty, and 'Double Cross' about a demon who resembles the Alien on steroids and has a knack for being in two places at once.  Then there is 'One Small Promise,' a Buffy/Riley tidbit and 'City of Despair,' an interesting story that pits Buffy and Angel against each other in a final confrontation in yet another dimension.  The remaining two tales are 'Bad Dog,' in which Oz is freed to so that a geek with low self-esteem can drain Willow's power, and 'Punish Me with Kisses,' a ghost story that is a bit too cute.<br />On top of offering a set of interesting, well conceived stories, 'Food Chain' has a stellar cast of illustrators.  Both the stories and the full page artwork offer a far greater variety than the regular Dark Horse productions, which gives the reader a chance to appreciate different styles and better understand the arcane art of comic book production.  If you aren't normally drawn to the graphic novel format, but want something that offers a representative sample of its potential this is the one to own.	2002-07-30
1459019:US	53082946	RSL7O3O1IP65L	1569715637	354050213	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Creatures of Habit	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Blood, Buffy, and Tears	Buffy is having increasing difficulty adjusting to her return to the living in the sixth season.  No matter how hard she tries, she has been unable to reconnect with her life and friends.  During her absence, everyone seems to have developed a completely new set of problems.  Giles cannot decide if he is leaving.  Xander and Anya are engaged, but do not seem very happy about it.  Tara is increasingly distressed about Willow's compulsive quest for increased power.  Spike is in love with Buffy and not handling it very well.  And Dawn, well, Dawn seems intent on becoming a juvenile delinquent.  Nobody seems to have much time for Buffy, except maybe Spike, and he has too much time.<br />Now Dawn has taken up sneaking out at night with her friend Melinda and hanging out at the local rave.  This is a tough scene, and the guy Dawn likes best, Skeeter, makes a hobby of drug dealing.  This is bad news, since Skeeter is hung up on Velatti the DJ.  Velatti has one major flaw, her other night job is drinking blood.  The beautiful vampire convinces Skeeter to team up with Parnassus another bloodsucker, with a new drug to sell.  This concoction gets its human users high and then turns them into a whole new flavor of vampire intoxicant.  Dawn and Melinda, teenagers anxious to be cool are drawn right into the middle of this vampire's version of a meth lab.<br />While Buffy frets about Dawn, and tries to figure out how to get her life back, Willow discovers an ancient volume called 'The Book of Tears.'  Unable to control herself, Dawn delves deeply into the book's spells and somehow unleashes a new horror on Sunnydale.  Parnassus suddenly finds himself entranced by the Queen of Tears.  In return for a promise of the ultimate high, he begins the process of opening a portal to the Queen's dimension.  The main ingredient for this is the sacrifice of a virgin.  Enter Dawn, once again.<br />With the entire Scooby gang dealing with one kind of addiction or another, Spike turns out to be the hero of this piece.  He is the only one who realizes that there seems to be a disaster in the making.  Unfortunately, no one wants to listen to him until it is nearly too late.  By that time, Dawn has vanished and everyone is clueless.<br />On top of the show, we have Buffy comics, graphic novels, plain novels and now, illustrated novels.  One has to admire the determination of the BTVS marketing folks for continually finding something new for Buffy's fans.  Brian Horton and Paul Lee have combined forces to provide some excellent color and ink work.  This makes up a bit for a novel that reads a bit too much like a comic book.  Fassbender and Pascoe are good with snappy dialog, but they lack the skill of someone like Chris Golden when it comes to making an entire novel hang together.  Still, it's good reading, but not to die for.he hero of this piece.  He is the only one who realizes that there seems to be a disaster in the making.  Unfortunately, no one wants to listen to him until it is nearly too late.  By that time, Dawn has vanished and everyone is clueless.<br />On top of the show, we have Buffy comics, graphic novels, plain novels and now, illustrated novels.  One has to admire the determination of the BTVS marketing folks for continually finding something new for Buffy's fans.  Brian Horton and Paul Lee have combined forces to provide some excellent color and ink work.  This makes up a bit for a novel that reads a bit too much like a comic book.  Fassbender and Pascoe are good with snappy dialog, but they lack the skill of someone like Chris Golden when it comes to making an entire novel hang together.  Still, it's good reading, but not to die for.	2002-07-29
1461354:US	53082946	R157D462RQNE1K	074342414X	162794399	The Casefiles: Volume 1 (Angel (Pocket))	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	You Wouldn't Like Him When He's Happy...	Despite top notch acting and a fair share of interesting plots and story arcs 'Angel' is often treated as BTVS's poor cousin.  Of course, the network shift hasn't helped either.  Every year I'm surprised and delighted that the show is continued, and I keep hoping that Angel too will eventually come out on DVD.  In the meantime, the team of Nancy Holder, Jeff Mariotte, and Maryelizabeth Hart have managed to produce the ultimate Angel memory aid, aptly called 'The Casefiles.'<br />Ostensibly, the book is comprised of the episode synopses for the first two seasons.  But it offers far more than just the story line.  Action and resolution are there, of course, but there are also short descriptions of new characters, some info in how each episode relates to others in BTVS and Angel, and expense repost, lists of weapons used, quotes, vampire rules, location details, scenes that were cut, interviewlets and....  You get the idea, enough detailed info to help you become the closest thing to an Angel trivia maven.  Did I mention a character guide and actor profiles and scads of pictures?<br />Yes, it is possible to overdose on Angel info, but this book is a mine of data with many surprises.  For one inch of shelf space, I can check on the episodes I missed and look things up when I'm indulging my compulsion to read and review Angel books.  If you are a fan, this book is almost everything you ever wanted to know about the show.  The writing team has done a super job of creating and enjoyable, well-organized and designed reference book about Los Angeles' oddest detective team.  I only my college textbooks were half this much fun.	2002-07-27
1463419:US	53082946	RX4QO9GU8JMQ7	0708901301	20471690	Crime At Black Dudley (U)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Campion's First Flowering	Margery Allingham is one of the grand dames of British mystery fiction, usual ranked with Sayers, Marsh and Christie.  Pretty heady company!!  Allingham has, for the most part, a lighter style than the others.  Her hero, Albert Campion has much in common with Lord Peter, but he lacks Whimsey's total perfection and flaunts his heritage (and education) a bit less.  Initially cast as a 'zany', he has a great deal of fun in him.  In later novels he will gradually mature into a genuinely remarkable character.<br />The Crime at Black Dudley was the first novel in which Campion appears.  Written in 1928 when Allingham was 23 (and just recently married) the book is quite a bit different from later volumes.  Campion is only sketched in.  While an important character, he is by no means the central hero of the plot.  And the story is very youth oriented, composed primarily of post-war (WW I) youth vs. villainous older male criminals.  The first time I read this book I was of an age with the younger half of the cast.  It was something of a shock to read it when I had more in common with the crooks.<br />The plot is the purest of British mystery confections.  A group of young folk are invited to a gloomy, desolate mansion for a week-end frolic as the request of the uncle of one of their number.  During a strange game of hide and seek played with an ancient dagger the uncle is murdered.  Campion has wormed his way into the party to recieve a set of plans from the old man, which he promptly misplaces, only to have them taken by the real protagonist of the book George Abbershaw.  One of the uncles compatriots turns out to be a German master criminal.  He wants the plans very badly.  badly enough to take the young folks prisoner and demand that they turn over the documents or else.  To complicate matters more, Abbershaw destroys the plans in a fit of what can only be described as British ethicality, making everyone very, very unhappy.<br />Without fail, the plot thickens.  Before the book is over you will have crawled through endless secret passages, been rescued by a fox hunt, and chased a cleverly disguised Rolls Royce across England.  There is perhaps a little too much silliness going on, but I have begun to suspect that Allingham was pulling our legs straight through to the somewhat melodramatic ending.<br />All in all a good read.  Certainly The Crime at the Black Dudley is not Allingham's best, but it foreshadows many of the novels to come.  In her early work Allingham has a bright and distinctive approach to the problems and pleasures of the young men and women of post-war Britain.  This gave her a tremendous and well deserved readership that grew up along with her and her erratic hero.  Seventy years later she is still wonderful entertainment!e book is over you will have crawled through endless secret passages, been rescued by a fox hunt, and chased a cleverly disguised Rolls Royce across England.  There is perhaps a little too much silliness going on, but I have begun to suspect that Allingham was pulling our legs straight through to the somewhat melodramatic ending.<br />All in all a good read.  Certainly The Crime at the Black Dudley is not Allingham's best, but it foreshadows many of the novels to come.  In her early work Allingham has a bright and distinctive approach to the problems and pleasures of the young men and women of post-war Britain.  This gave her a tremendous and well deserved readership that grew up along with her and her erratic hero.  Seventy years later she is still wonderful entertainment!	2002-07-25
1463857:US	53082946	R3VDGKJ6JUDWPY	0708902693	917252790	Coroner's Pidgin (U)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	When Johnny Comes Back from the War	In the waning days of World War II Albert Campion has returned from Europe on leave.  His intent is a quick stopover in his old London flat and then to take a train into the country to be with his wife Amanda and a child he only knows from letters.  Unfortunately, he surprises Lugg and Lady Carados, the mother of his close friend Johnny, carrying a corpse into his rooms.<br />The corpse is that of a woman who apparently had the nerve to crawl into Johnny Carados' bed and take an overdose of sleeping salts.  At first, Campion attempts to get things under control, but finally thinks the better of it and sets out for the train.  Unexpectedly, he is kidnapped by the cab driver and returns mysteriously to consciousness in a garage.  To add insult to injury, the police insist that he stay in London to help with the Carados problem.  A much-disgruntled Campion starts digging into a suicide that is looking more and more like murder.<br />In short order the plot thickens.  To the murder add a stolen bottle of rare wine, another murder attempt, and finally a series of art thefts.  To make matters worse, the primary suspect is Johnny Carados himself, back in town to marry the widow of a war comrade in arms.  Carados is motivated more by duty than love and the woman has fallen in love with a U.S. soldier on duty in London.  There are even more complications to come, but if I told you about them I would start giving away the plot (maybe that should be 'plots').<br />\\"Pearls before Swine\\" is a perfect parlor puzzle, full of interlocking pieces that never quite seem to fit together.  Not only has Allingham once again created a great detective story, but she also captures much of the atmosphere and psychology of wartime London.  Early in the book Carados complains to Albert, \\"I'm living in two different worlds, Campion, two utterly different worlds.\\"  As, the reader will discover, are most characters in this novel.  It is up to Campion to pierce through all the masks, and reestablish the rule of justice.lish the rule of justice.	2002-07-25
1463970:US	53082946	R3RX68FHA519XK	0743400380	99117539	Oz: Into the Wild (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Twice (Thrice) Told Tale	Did you ever wonder where Oz went when he left Sunnydale?  Or how he managed to gain control of his changes?  Here, issuing from the fertile mind of Chris Golden (one of Buffy lit's best writers) is as good an explanation as one could ever want.  With the help of Giles, Oz makes his way from Sunnydale to the frozen Himalayas, where there are rumours of a master who can give him back his self control.  But to accomplish thathe must face his own demons and battle a few others who have different plans for him.<br />First he goes to Los Angeles, and then by boat to Fiji and Sidney, Australia.  A plane takes him to Hong Kong where he meets Qing, the butcher, and his family.  They are Kaohsiang fire demons, and friends of Giles.  They are able (barely) to keep Oz locked up during the full moon.  Then Oz heads off for magic transport to Tibet and discovers he has an unexpected companion.  Qing's beautiful daughter, Jinan, also wants to study under Master Shantou, who is a great mage as well as the world's only werewolf therapist.<br />Even as Oz struggles to deal with his inner beast, he also finds himself hunted by Gib Cain, the werewolf hunter from Phases (BTVS - Season 2).  And everyone is locked in a life and death struggle with Lord Muztag, a demon who makes grim a household word.  \\"Patience is a virtue,\\" Muztag exclaims, \\"And I don't have any of those.\\"  Count on a lot of seat of your pants excitement as Oz struggles with both his insides and his outsides.<br />This book is unusual (at least for me) because it is a novelization of a graphic novel, which was a compilation of a series of comic books.  All written by Chris Golden, naturally.  In the book, Golden spends considerable time filling in the originally sketchy beginning.  This includes the entire trip to Fiji, and the Gib Cain subplot.  As one might expect, the details are finer and the vistas wider.  It is surprising that neither format suffers in comparison to the other.  The extended text of the novel is just as enjoyable as are the comic graphics.<br />What is most special though, is the look we get into Oz's head.  In BTVS, Oz is so laconic that we are lead to believe that he is the world's most laid-back werewolf.  In 'Into the Wild', we find that is hardly the case.  Becoming a werewolf has turned Oz into something he doesn't quite understand and he desperately wants to return to being the old Oz again.  But there's no way back from that precipice.  Now he must find a way to be more than man or beast.  When Jinan tells him that she understands, because she too is a monster with a human veneer, Oz exclaims \\"No. You don't.  What's in you?  It's still you.  The thing inside of me?  It'll kill you if you give it a chance... You're running away from home when all I want is to finally be able to go home.\\"st as enjoyable as are the comic graphics.<br />What is most special though, is the look we get into Oz's head.  In BTVS, Oz is so laconic that we are lead to believe that he is the world's most laid-back werewolf.  In 'Into the Wild', we find that is hardly the case.  Becoming a werewolf has turned Oz into something he doesn't quite understand and he desperately wants to return to being the old Oz again.  But there's no way back from that precipice.  Now he must find a way to be more than man or beast.  When Jinan tells him that she understands, because she too is a monster with a human veneer, Oz exclaims \\"No. You don't.  What's in you?  It's still you.  The thing inside of me?  It'll kill you if you give it a chance... You're running away from home when all I want is to finally be able to go home.\\"	2002-07-24
1464441:US	53082946	R18FUTXXT1SZRU	096782219X	803306170	Perfect Trust: A Rowan Gant Investigation	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Suffer Not a Witch...	This is the third volume of the Rowan Gant occult detective series.  It opens just before Christmas almost a year after the dramatic bridge scene that ended 'Never Burn a Witch.'  Rowan is still haunted by his close brush with death, and is unable to shake the belief that Eldon Porter, the witch hunter, still lives.  Because of this, Rowan is having a great deal of difficulty remaining grounded.  Already experiencing chilling nightmares, Gant is on the edge of being overwhelmed spiritually.  He is even beginning to sleepwalk.<br />Inevitably, Rowan's sleepwalking (actually, sleepdriving) leads him to the site of a death, one which the police are still investigating.  This puts him in conflict with his wife Felicity, and his friend Ben Storm.  Both of them have watched Rowan gradually deteriorate, and have agreed to keep him out of any further 'investigations.'  When Rowan starts automatic writing on top of everything else, Felicity and Ben insist that the witch seek psychological help.  The stress is inescapable though, and Rowan realizes that he has become connected with a dead rape victim, and his nightmares are visions of the crimes of a serial rapist.<br />Rowan is clearly out of control, and the resistance from his wife and friend make things only worse, cutting him off from support when he dearly needs it.  Instead, his closest human contacts become the demonic cheerleader who is haunting him as she seeks her own brand of justice and with the mind of the rapist himself.  But the clues refuse to gel, and soon even more is at stake.  Rowan is beginning to succumb to compulsions set by the victims.  With his own sanity at risk, is becomes more and more clear that, lacking a solution, Rowan will face overwhelming loss and pain.<br />The plot is fairly complex, and would have been a complete puzzler if a tiny snippet of conversation in the last third of the book blown the killer's cover for me.  This is one of those things I hate as a reader - when you know who did it, and the sleuth is still clueless.  I also find Rowan's habit of seizing disaster whenever the opportunity presents itself makes him a bit unsympathetic.  The man has a suicidal heroing complex.  Of course, the personal issue here is Rowan's self-destructiveness, so this is forgivable -- this time.<br />Sellars writes well, although his characters are a bit too uncomplicated for the circumstances.  This plot has some imaginative twists, and the story arc about Rowan's nemesis, the witch hunter, is beginning to develop as well.  If Rowan will grow up a bit, and Ben Storm figures out how to stop acting like a cigar store Indian, there is great potential for a long-term series.  Of course, if Rowan doesn't get it together, there won't be much more of a series anyway, just a ring side seat at the next witch's funeral.  I heartily recomment acquiring the early volumes in the series.  They are good fun, and will explain some of the events mentioned in 'Perfect Trust.'it, and the sleuth is still clueless.  I also find Rowan's habit of seizing disaster whenever the opportunity presents itself makes him a bit unsympathetic.  The man has a suicidal heroing complex.  Of course, the personal issue here is Rowan's self-destructiveness, so this is forgivable -- this time.<br />Sellars writes well, although his characters are a bit too uncomplicated for the circumstances.  This plot has some imaginative twists, and the story arc about Rowan's nemesis, the witch hunter, is beginning to develop as well.  If Rowan will grow up a bit, and Ben Storm figures out how to stop acting like a cigar store Indian, there is great potential for a long-term series.  Of course, if Rowan doesn't get it together, there won't be much more of a series anyway, just a ring side seat at the next witch's funeral.  I heartily recomment acquiring the early volumes in the series.  They are good fun, and will explain some of the events mentioned in 'Perfect Trust.'	2002-07-24
1466839:US	53082946	RC2A395KB3G6C	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	3	48	54	N	N	Lost, One Stephanie Plum.	When Evelyn Soder disappears with her daughter, it means big trouble for her mother, Mabel Markowitz.  The judge in Evelyn's divorce insisted on a child custody bond and Evelyn's ex-husband is intent on collecting it.  Mabel co-signed for the bond, and now she may lose her home.  Stephanie Plum, unlucky in love and fugitive apprehension, becomes involved because Mabel is her parents' neighbor.  Mabel bakes when she is upset, and the Plums are drowning in bread loaves and coffee cakes.<br />And so, begins yet another comic adventure in the strange world of 'The Burg,' Trenton's own twilight zone.  Soon she finds herself in conflict with Eddie Abruzzi, who is a sociopathic crime lord when he isn't being a sociopathic war gamer.  Eddie wants Stephanie out of the Soder investigation, and is perfectly willing to make her crazy before he finally kills her.  In addition, Stephanie must deal with Andy Bender, a bond-skipping drunk with a talent for getting Plum to trip over her own feed.<br />Nor should I fail to mention a lawyer whose name is not spelled c-l-o-w-n, a female apprehension agent who is almost as good as Ranger (and who doesn't keep losing cars, purses and handcuffs), and that usual mad gang of crooks, cohorts and lovers.  Yes, Stephanie's love life becomes even more complicated while everything else is going on.  Without TastyCakes and pizza, Plum would be well on the way to a nervous breakdown.<br />This all is typical Evanovich.  In fact, it is a bit too typical.  Very few writers are able to avoid formula writing when a series begins to stretch out into extra innings, and 'Hard Eight' has started to show the inevitable signs of strain.  As a plot, it is very reminiscent of 'High Five.'  But while that was fun and original, this time the sight gags and sarcasm are beginning to wear thin.  Evanovich's solution seems to be to have the same things happen, but even more often.  This time Stephanie loses enough cars and handcuffs to stock a small police department.<br />The single thing that bother's me most is the degeneration of Stephanie's character.  Not all that long ago, she was a feisty woman who was down on her luck but determined to make things come out right.  The humor was clever and she often gave as good as she got.  Now she is a near incompetent who spends to much time being a victim of her own poor choices.  The humor has shifted to slapstick and too often Stephanie is the joke.  And she has started to rely on anyone but herself when problems occur.  Often this is funny, but I keep finding myself wincing rather than laughing.  I want the old Stephanie back.ment.  <br />The single thing that bother's me most is the degeneration of Stephanie's character.  Not all that long ago, she was a feisty woman who was down on her luck but determined to make things come out right.  The humor was clever and she often gave as good as she got.  Now she is a near incompetent who spends to much time being a victim of her own poor choices.  The humor has shifted to slapstick and too often Stephanie is the joke.  And she has started to rely on anyone but herself when problems occur.  Often this is funny, but I keep finding myself wincing rather than laughing.  I want the old Stephanie back.	2002-07-22
1468809:US	53082946	R1LX0YOUKBUQVJ	0743427521	223193354	Stranger to the Sun (ANGEL)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Someone Is Putting Los Angeles To Sleep!	Thanks to Cordelia's curiosity, Wesley is talked into opening a package meant for Angel.  No surprise, there is a puff of green smoke (why is it always green!) and Wesley is out for the count.  Suddenly Angel and Gunn are frantically searching for the cure to Wesley's sudden narcolepsy while Cordelia stays home and keeps an eye on Rip Van Winkle number two, meanwhile searching the Internet for a potential solution.<br />It doesn't take long for Gunn and Angel to realize the Wesley's sudden nap is no isolated phenomenon.  Similar packages have been delivered throughout Los Angeles targeting the magically knowledgeable and a curious cross-section of scientists.  Only gradually does it become clear that MacKenna, one of most notorious vampires in the city has dire plans.  If he is not stopped,  Los Angeles will become the capital of the Vampire States of America<br />Wesley himself may be down, but he isn't quite out.  He finds himself in a coalmine somewhere in Yorkshire, England.  We are treated to a bit of history, as Wesley and his fellow miners descend deep into tunnels where daylight is a stranger and fall victim to a cave in.  Wesley must struggle through a maze of passages avoiding explosive gas and rock falls.  Little does Wesley know how important it is for the miners to reach the surface safely.<br />For all the players, this is a race against time.  The entire world is at risk as MacKenna's plan moves toward fruition.  Angel and Gunn seek desperately for his lair, while Cordelia alerts mages around the world.  Meanwhile Wesley sleeps, struggling to save lives in another part of the world, at another time.<br />Once again, Jeff Mariotte spins a complex and exciting plot while still paying attention to the character development that makes a novel keep the reader's attention.  This is his fourth Angel novel, in addition to his work with Nancy Holder on 'Unseen,'  and he has proven he knows what it takes to please his readers.	2002-07-20
1470709:US	53082946	R1YKQ1Y54OSXQY	0399148450	627668908	Widow's Walk: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Neither a Borrower Nor a Murderer Be	The book list provided by the publisher shows that this his forty-second work, twenty-ninth in the Spencer series.  That is an astonishing creative space over which to maintain literary momentum.  Naturally, quality varies, but Robert Parker has proven that he can consistently produce enjoyable mysteries, some of which are actually exceptional.  I haven't been as pleased with the last few stories, which have sometimes felt like caricatures of themselves, but \\"Widow's Walk\\" seems signal a return to the style of old.<br />When Spenser is hired to try to prove that Mary Smith did not kill Nathan, her husband, his first reaction was that this was a hopeless case.  Even Mary's lawyer is convinced her client is guilty.  The death occurred in a locked house and the gun is missing.  Mary and Nathan have been seen fighting and it seems that she tried to hire someone to kill him.  Worse, Mary has made a career of being one or two steps removed from reality, and she hasn't been particularly helpful.<br />Nevertheless Spencer undertakes the case and finds the simple surface conceals an unending stream of complications and misrepresentations.  There is trouble at Nathan's bank, his sex life is ambiguous, and people start to die.  In fact, Spencer himself comes under attack.  All this keeps the detective and his good friend Hawk busy, but it doesn't really seem to lead anywhere.  Nothing makes Mary look any less guilty and the death toll keeps mounting.<br />Parker's story telling relies on sharp, sarcastic dialogue.  Most often Spencer resolves a case by poking at everything until it begins to unravel, and \\"Widow's Walk\\" is no exception.  In this case, though, the dialogue has turned down a notch from the peak it reached in \\"Potshot\\" and \\"Hugger Mugger.\\"  The result is more realistic exchanges and a smoother feel to the story.  The plot, however, moves a bit too mechanically for me.  At times things just seem to happen rather than develop one after the other.  But that is often the nature of a Spenser tale.<br />Despite these slight flaws I found the book very entertaining.  Pearl the wonder dog still lives and Spenser still finds Susan the sexiest woman he knows.  And the old characters are still there in all their usual eccentric feistiness.  There are times when we need to get away from books with great quantities of character development and just relax in a comfort zone.  Save this book for one of those moments.the nature of a Spenser tale.<br />Despite these slight flaws I found the book very entertaining.  Pearl the wonder dog still lives and Spenser still finds Susan the sexiest woman he knows.  And the old characters are still there in all their usual eccentric feistiness.  There are times when we need to get away from books with great quantities of character development and just relax in a comfort zone.  Save this book for one of those moments.	2002-07-18
1472141:US	53082946	RRXBVBPW0LMSJ	0830634835	637559903	Books, Boxes &amp; Portfolios: Binding, Construct and Design, Step-By-Step	Books	5	76	76	N	N	The Art of Containing Space	I dabble in photography as an art form.  One of the things I like to do is make a series of prints and assemble them into a bound book or portfolio.  I have worked with several very fine book/album makers in the design.  My only problem is that the process is costly, even though it can be deeply satisfying.<br />It was several years ago that the urge came upon me to investigate making of books and portfolios myself.  While casting about among a limited set of resources, I came upon Franz Zeier's guide.  It has been my guidepost ever since.  In fact, it is a measure of Zeier's success that this volume has been in print in English for 12 years and is still in print.<br />Zeier's objective, to provide clear instructions for building many paper-based objects without the need for mechanical tools.  Nor does he focus on decorative techniques.  Because of this, he does not investigate leather binding, blind and gold tooling, gilt edges, decorated papers, and other such additions.  He believes that the opportunities afforded by the basic, 'preliminary' techniques are sufficiently enough to satisfy the many of the creative urges of hobbyists and craftsmen.<br />The text addresses materials, techniques, solids, mats, boxes, portfolios, books and albums in a straightforward, easy to follow fashion.  The book itself is extremely well made, obviously intended for survival in the workshop.  An interesting feature is that Zeier eschews photographs, preferring to illustrate his techniques with drawings.  I think this works well, because a drawing can emphasize the important parts of a process better than a camera can.	2002-07-17
1473239:US	53082946	R3FQQI2WL60C9C	0764548549	567277434	BEA Weblogic Server Bible	Books	3	27	28	N	N	Hard to Evaluate	I learn best by doing.  When I buy technical books, I prefer those that include a lot of working examples.  I have recently had an immense quantity of J2EE architecture poured into my somewhat leaky old brain, and I was looking for something that could get everything to gel together when I happened on this book.  Since Weblogic Server 6.1 is the server in use on my current assignment, I bought this book with the intention of cobbling together a test environment and working through its many examples.<br />At first the going was pretty good.  Zuffoletto has an easily readable style and, with his guidance, I got the server up and running without too many traumas.  I was OK until I started to work through the RMI examples in the book.  They didn't work.  After some fumbling, I went to the website and downloaded the updates examples.  They were quite a bit different, but still didn't work.  Fortunately, I have knowledgeable friends, and we eventually filled in the gaps and got everything up and running.  My first issue with the book is that this pattern repeated itself frequently.<br />The text itself is great, but from a practical viewpoint, the supporting examples have many gaps in them.  Sometimes the errors are glaring - failure to qualify the class name when running it in the JVM.  Sometimes they are quite subtle.  I frequently got the feeling that the book was really written for Weblogic 6.0 and then given a slight makeover to adapt it to 6.1.  In addition, the book often fails to provide the kind of detailed practical explanations of how to compile and where to place code that are vital to beginners.<br />I also think Zuffoletto should have spent more time working through the intricacies of managing the Weblogic Server.  As it is, the book is more focused on being a general introduction to using the technologies that WLS 6.1 supports.  This isn't necessarily bad, but I found myself struggling to figure out whether I had set up the parameters correctly a few too many times.  In addition, I had some problems because I use MS SQL Server for persistence rather than Oracle, and so was left out in the cold a bit.<br />On the good side, this is a very well written book that covered an immense amount of material without getting bogged down anywhere.  It starts from scratch and takes you from setting up the environment and the development team, to the various API's (JNDI, RMI, JDBC, JMS, JTA, and JavaMail), and then through the major development patters (JSP, EJB, etc.).  The final third of the book focuses on Weblogic administration and support and then some time is spent on what I think of as more emergent technologies (such as SOAP).  If coverage isn't always as deep as it could be, one has to keep in mind that this is a 900-page book as it is.<br />I guess my real problem is that the book doesn't quite live up to its hype.  Which is, perhaps more the fault of the publisher than Zuffoletto and his team.  It is Hungry Minds, after all, that put the '100% Comprehensive, Authoritative, and What You Need' on the books cover.  Well, it's a bit more like 70%, but that isn't all bad.  Had the examples been a bit more workable (perhaps by expanding on the books website) I would have been very happy with it.  As it is, I don't regret reading it at all,ny times.  In addition, I had some problems because I use MS SQL Server for persistence rather than Oracle, and so was left out in the cold a bit.<br />On the good side, this is a very well written book that covered an immense amount of material without getting bogged down anywhere.  It starts from scratch and takes you from setting up the environment and the development team, to the various API's (JNDI, RMI, JDBC, JMS, JTA, and JavaMail), and then through the major development patters (JSP, EJB, etc.).  The final third of the book focuses on Weblogic administration and support and then some time is spent on what I think of as more emergent technologies (such as SOAP).  If coverage isn't always as deep as it could be, one has to keep in mind that this is a 900-page book as it is.<br />I guess my real problem is that the book doesn't quite live up to its hype.  Which is, perhaps more the fault of the publisher than Zuffoletto and his team.  It is Hungry Minds, after all, that put the '100% Comprehensive, Authoritative, and What You Need' on the books cover.  Well, it's a bit more like 70%, but that isn't all bad.  Had the examples been a bit more workable (perhaps by expanding on the books website) I would have been very happy with it.  As it is, I don't regret reading it at all,	2002-07-16
1474978:US	53082946	R2XIP7YDSELD7S	0743427602	533394641	The Wisdom of War (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	And Who Will Watch the Watchers?	Investigating a series of ... murders in the Docktown area of Sunnydale, Buffy stops in a local low-life bar and finds herself watching one of its patrons suddenly tear off his skin and set about slicing up the rest of the crowd.  Buffy managed to put an end to the creature, which was mostly tentacles, mouths, and hunger.  It does not take the Scooby gang long, however, to discover that this is one of those monsters that come in more than single quantities.<br />Buffy heads for the hospital to interview one of the surviving bar patrons who seemed to know more than he was telling, only to discover that he too is in the middle of changing.  Even as he changes into Mr. Tentacles, he starts yelling that 'The Moruach are coming.'  Buffy hardly gets to wonder how to spell that before they show up as well, four eyed creatures that look like a cross between a sea slug and a very hungry shark.  The two species seem to be mortal enemies, but woe to the Slayer who gets between them.<br />The only good news is that every vampire in Sunnydale (except for Spike, of course) has suddenly decided to leave town.  Good news, that is, unless you mind having to deal with whatever could terrify the undead population enough to flee the hellmouth.  If this is not enough, Quentin Travers, the watcher that once tried to get Buffy killed, arrives in town to work on his own agenda.  When Buffy and Giles make it clear they are not cooperating, Travers springs Faith from prison and add considerably to Buffy's problems.<br />And the fun is just beginning.  There are things even more monstrous waiting in the shadows, a member of yet another new occult organization shows up, and Spike's sex life is about to take an entirely new twist.  Buffy is confronted with a set of problems that go against the 'stake first, ask questions later' style with which she is most comfortable.  Now she must chose among evils and seek help in unexpected places.  The human theme of this book is learning to trust your own values instead of trusting others to tell you what to think.  Both slayers and Tara as well must find answers to this perplexing question.<br />With typical style, Christopher Golden manages to pick up a handful of threads from both the television series and the literature, combine these with a completely new set of ideas and keep everything at a boil for most of a 400 page novel.  Everyone plays a part, including Dawn, Tara, and Faith.  Faith is a particular surprise as she demonstrates surprising depth and that her determination to start over is no fluke.  This is good, entertaining reading, and points to several new directions for BTVS novels.  This is the longest Buffy novel of this year so far, and is certainly one of the best.wn values instead of trusting others to tell you what to think.  Both slayers and Tara as well must find answers to this perplexing question.<br />With typical style, Christopher Golden manages to pick up a handful of threads from both the television series and the literature, combine these with a completely new set of ideas and keep everything at a boil for most of a 400 page novel.  Everyone plays a part, including Dawn, Tara, and Faith.  Faith is a particular surprise as she demonstrates surprising depth and that her determination to start over is no fluke.  This is good, entertaining reading, and points to several new directions for BTVS novels.  This is the longest Buffy novel of this year so far, and is certainly one of the best.	2002-07-15
1476926:US	53082946	R26OKB1GCC1VAC	1569717362	803390655	Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Vol. 11: False Memories	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Serving Slayer Sushi	Set in the fifth season, 'False Memories' finds Buffy still trying to cope with the sudden acquisition of a younger sister.  Not only is Dawn every bit as irritating as a sibling can be, Buffy keeps running into memories of Dawn's involvement in old episodes which weren't there all that long ago.  Trying to keep her sister out of trouble and sorting out what is real and what is not are becoming major distractions for Buffy.  It is bad enough that Buffy has one of the world's toughest night jobs - hellmouth cleanup patrol, now she has a nosy sister as well.<br />Once again, Sunnydale is visited by a new vampire menace, this time from Japan.  Yuki Makimura and her companions, a group of vampire monks, are hardly tourists.  While the vampire has no qualms about making sashimi out of our favorite slayer, her real agenda is another thing entirely.  Yet when Dawn uncovers some clues to the mystery, but Giles goes all mysterious.  Stymied by her watcher, Buffy is forced to turn to the [highly] unreliable help of Spike.<br />Once again, Tom Fassbender and Jim Pascoe have joined to create and interesting plot.  Dawn is a welcome addition to the 'literary' Buffy world (I had an irritating younger sister of my own).  I am at last getting used to the illustration style of the Dark Horse graphic novels.  While the artwork is always of very high quality, I kept wishing the illustrated characters would look exactly as they do in the show.  That is an impossible task, of course - just my inner perfectionist coming through.  The truth is that Cliff Richards, Joe Pimentel, and Will Conrad have again turned out the spectacular artwork that makes good plot and dialogue into something memorable.	2002-07-13
1478299:US	53082946	RNUKMC3KPSIQY	0380976528	535649961	Declare: A Novel	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	&quot;Huge and mighty forms, that do not live like living men&quot;	Tim Powers does not write ordinary books.  From my ancient copy of 'The Drawing of the Dark' until now, Powers has managed to find a unique vision with each new effort.  Even in a genre that is noted for its imaginative flare.  This time he has produced a novel that is part John Le Carre, part John Milton, and part H. P. Lovecraft, and, of course, all Tim Powers.<br />The story starts in 1963, when Andrew Hale, a minor British academic, is called back into action by one of England's most obscure espionage organizations.  On top of Mount Ararat things are stirring, and Andrew's assignment is to foil the efforts of a Russian expedition intended to establish further communication with the residents of that legendary mountain.  These are those who have 'looked on God's face and will see it nevermore,' those fallen angels that did not plummet all the way to hell, but remain here with us.  He is uniquely qualified for this task, having already had several brushes with these alien spirits.<br />Hale shares this story with a collection of characters that, at first, appear to be mundane spies doing ordinary undercover sorts of things.  But, gradually, almost one word at a time, each reveals unexpected qualities and powers.  Elena, a Russian spy whom Hale falls in love with teaches him how to walk with a pacing that makes him invisible.  Kim Philby, another British spy, is actually a Russian agent.  He has some strange linkage to Hale, and was born with the knack for being in two places at once.<br />Powers tells this tale in parallel, gradually bringing the story of Hale's origins, the making of him into a spy, his work during World War II, and his several brushes with the demonic into sharper and sharper focus.  Initially, this is a bit confusing, for we see the bits of plot and character out of order.  Like looking at a faceted gem from too close a distance it takes some time before the stones entire shape is visible.  There is a rhythm to the writing, and, once it is mastered, the story begins to unfold in compelling detail.  [Philby is based on a historical British espionage figure, who actually did defect to the Russians.]<br />The story meanders not only over time, but over place as well.  Britain, France, Russia, the Middle East, and, repeatedly, Mount Ararat.  Its interior landscape is just as varied and unpredictable.  Strange voices and sounds pour forth from short wave radios.  Ankhs and anchors serve unexpected purposes.  And Russia's guardian angel wanders through graveyards looking for a bite to eat.<br />As I have already indicated, the book starts slowly.  It is over 500 pages, and for a while I was afraid that its fragmentary start was a bad omen.  Persistence paid off, however, and in the final analysis, I found the book a strangely rewarding read.  This is a tale made up of subtle detailing, not suspense and action, and so will not be every reader's cup of tea.  Tim Powers is addictive, though, and the patient fan will find 'Declare' a great treat.stered, the story begins to unfold in compelling detail.  [Philby is based on a historical British espionage figure, who actually did defect to the Russians.]<br />The story meanders not only over time, but over place as well.  Britain, France, Russia, the Middle East, and, repeatedly, Mount Ararat.  Its interior landscape is just as varied and unpredictable.  Strange voices and sounds pour forth from short wave radios.  Ankhs and anchors serve unexpected purposes.  And Russia's guardian angel wanders through graveyards looking for a bite to eat.<br />As I have already indicated, the book starts slowly.  It is over 500 pages, and for a while I was afraid that its fragmentary start was a bad omen.  Persistence paid off, however, and in the final analysis, I found the book a strangely rewarding read.  This is a tale made up of subtle detailing, not suspense and action, and so will not be every reader's cup of tea.  Tim Powers is addictive, though, and the patient fan will find 'Declare' a great treat.	2002-07-12
1482241:US	53082946	R175464EDL0G64	0812519655	814043193	Sacred Ground	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Serious Mischief	Jennifer Talldeer is several people.  We know her as a woman making her way as a private detective, a tough business for a man, let alone a woman.  Her tribesfolk know her as Good Eagle Woman, an active participant in the powwows and a determined rescuer of Native American artifacts.  Her true name is Kestrel Hunts Alone, student of her shaman grandfather Mooncrow, on of the respected Little Old Men of the Osage.<br />When Jennifer is called in to investigate sabotage at a construction site that appears to have disturbed some Indian remains, her instincts as Kestrel warn her that all is not as it seems.  There is evidence that the artifacts uncovered at the Riverside Mall come from a far more important site.  Not only are the often-malignant 'Little People' badly stirred up, but something far more evil than grave robbing is also at work.  Somehow, Rod Calligan, the builder, is at the center of the trouble.  He is intent on blaming the Native Americans working for him for the troubles at the mall.<br />Things are not made easier when David Spotted Horse, Jennifer's first lover, reappears as an Indian activist.  At first, the antagonism festers between David and Jennifer, who does not agree with some of David's more militant positions.  Then, as David comes to understand and accept Kestrel's spiritual role, her affection for him becomes a distraction, albeit a welcome one.<br />In a sense, Jennifer's real adversary is not Calligan, the Little People, the Evil One, or even her occasionally irritating grandfather.  It is her own need to be perfect and to control outcomes that she must overcome in order to win her final confrontations.  This is a tough challenge, one that she must face herself in her quest for a shaman's medicine-pipe.<br />Mercedes Lackey alternates between youth oriented fiction series and less frequent, more serious writing.  While Jennifer Talldeer is reminiscent of Diana Tregarde, the occult detective, there is little similarity of style between the Tregarde series and 'Sacred Ground.'  Both are strong heroines, but Diana is presented as a finished person, while Jennifer is still learning and growing.  The light banter that Diana often indulges in is rare for Kestrel.  'Sacred Ground' reveals a maturity of writing that complements its plot.  This is a weightier tale, but one that is much more rewarding.Tregarde series and 'Sacred Ground.'  Both are strong heroines, but Diana is presented as a finished person, while Jennifer is still learning and growing.  The light banter that Diana often indulges in is rare for Kestrel.  'Sacred Ground' reveals a maturity of writing that complements its plot.  This is a weightier tale, but one that is much more rewarding.	2002-07-09
1488593:US	53082946	R33TF694CM14VO	1585671339	45406944	Freddy Plays Football	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Mrs. Bean's Brother's Keeper	Walter Brooks begins this sixteenth tale of our indomitable porcine poet with a great stir on the Bean Farm.  Mrs. Bean's long lost brother has been discovered, and is coming to the farm for a reunion.  When Aaron Doty makes his appearance, it is with mixed reviews.  He is generally nice enough, although he has a marked affection for telling tall tales, but he has a suspicious mean streak.  In the final analysis, the animals come to suspect that he is a fraud, taking advantage of the fact that Mrs. Bean's brother left when she was quite young.  When they find out that Doty is conspiring with sneaky Mr. Garble from Centerboro, they are convinced.<br />But what should they do?  The Beans owe Doty half of Mrs. Bean's inheritance.  $5,000 dollars that long ago was put into the farm.  They will have to borrow the money from the bank, and that means the Bean's will be near destitute.  Even when the animals trap Doty in one lie after another, Mrs. Bean is adamant.  No matter how rotten the man is, as long as he is her brother he is entitled to the money.  Freddy will have to go to unheard of extremes to make this problem come out right.<br />One the lighter side, Freddy manages to be drafted into the Centerboro High School football team.  It seems that pigs make superb tackles, and the Centerboro team is in sad shape.  To make matters worse, their archrivals from Tushville have several players on their roster who are old enough to be teachers.  Whenever Freddy can make time, he is either in classes of at football practice.  Hopefully he will be able to help the Centerboro team improve their hapless record.<br />As usual, Brooks and illustrator Kurt Wiese manage to recreate one of the strangest fantasy worlds ever put into children's books.  Animals talk, often making more sense than do their human counterparts.  Freddy is part poet, part banker, part newspaperman, and now, part left tackle.  Spiders go for trips to California, and the Centerboro jail is better than most four star resorts.  Through it all come positive lessons about friendship and support, honesty (well, sometimes), and an abiding belief that a determined effort will turn things around.  Hard as it may be to believe, you can do a lot worse than learning your values from a pig!ur star resorts.  Through it all come positive lessons about friendship and support, honesty (well, sometimes), and an abiding belief that a determined effort will turn things around.  Hard as it may be to believe, you can do a lot worse than learning your values from a pig!	2002-07-03
1489371:US	53082946	R26DCXP6BSP8H5	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	57	60	N	Y	"Anything is possible in China"	Once upon a time, in post-war Britain, and author named Ernest Bramah started to write what became a slim handful of books set in an ancient, and mostly mythical, China.  The hero of these books was Kai Lung, who is best described as a well meaning rascal.  The stories tell of his (mis)adventures in love and the pursuit of sufficient cash.  Bramah had a rare, polished style, full of irony and sly humor, which was the continual delight of his readers.  In this reissue of the 1984 edition Barry Hughart ventured for the first time into a rarified world entirely reminiscent of Kai Lung's with equal aplomb and verve.<br />Instead of Kai Lung, our heroes are Yu Lu, commonly referred to as Number Ten Ox (to differentiate him from the eminent author of 'The Classic of Tea') and Li Kao, a great scholar with 'a slight flaw in his character.'  Yu Lu plays the part of the brave, strong, and heroic youth.  The perfect foil for Li Kao, who is sneaky, tricky and...  Well, one of them has to be capable of quick thinking.  Together they mount an impossible quest to save the lives of the children of Yu Lu's village.  They have been treacherously poisoned by Ku poison, the only antidote for which is a 'Great Root of Power' (small drum roll).<br />Without hesitation our heroes head off into a completely mythical world, where they work schemes to steal the money they need to work the schemes that will yield up the magical ginseng.  In doing so they must confront the incredibly gross Ancestress, who rules China from underneath, and the immensely greedy Duke of Ch'in.  And bitter fate has arranged that the 'Great Root of Power' (yet another drum roll) has been cut into parts and spread about in fabulous treasuries, all guarded by awful monsters and inescapable traps.<br />Will they conquer the forces arrayed against them?  Will they discover the real reason for everything that has happened to them?  Will they find the heart of the 'Great Root of Power' (boom!) and save the children of Ku-fu?  Of course, but how they do it will mystify and dazzle you.  If Barry Hughart has borrowed a plot device from Ernest Bramah, he has made it uniquely his own.  His language is slightly more modern, and he has traded some irony for sarcasm and slapstick, but the true magic, a fantasy world peopled by countless characters, each more gemlike than the last, set in a work that shines with equal magic.  If you like well wrought, tongue in cheek fantasy, put 'Bridge of Birds' on the top of your reading list.  And don't forget to look for the sequels.u-fu?  Of course, but how they do it will mystify and dazzle you.  If Barry Hughart has borrowed a plot device from Ernest Bramah, he has made it uniquely his own.  His language is slightly more modern, and he has traded some irony for sarcasm and slapstick, but the true magic, a fantasy world peopled by countless characters, each more gemlike than the last, set in a work that shines with equal magic.  If you like well wrought, tongue in cheek fantasy, put 'Bridge of Birds' on the top of your reading list.  And don't forget to look for the sequels.	2002-07-02
1494970:US	53082946	R11VN2HR9ZLHMC	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Stay out of the Basement	Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child like to mix science with spookiness in new and different ways. Starting back with 'Relic', where they often use hints of the occult and ancient evils to lure and entertain the reader, while the underlying mystery is really based on a weird but almost believable science.  'The Cabinet of Curiosities' is a bit less occult, and the science this time is up front and deadly, as a serial killer from New York Cities ancient past walks the streets again, taking lives to prolong his own.<br />This novel reunites key characters from several of Preston and Child's most successful stories.  Prendergast, the FBI agent from 'The Relic' and 'Reliquary,' Nora Kelly, the archeologist who sought to solve the mystery of her missing father in 'Thunderhead,' and William Smithback, the overbearing report in all three of the tales.  Nora is curator at the New York Museum of Natural History struggling with a tiny budget and an unsympathetic management team.  As well as the additional curse of having Smithback for a fianc&eacute;e.<br />Agent Prendergast appears and convinces Nora to help him survey a site recently discovered during construction.  Despite resistance from the buildings owner Nora is introduced into the basement of what once was one of the city's famous 'cabinets' - exhibits of curiosities collected from around the world.  What she finds is a 19th century chamber of horrors, the skeletal remains of 36 victims of a manic serial killer.  Their heads cut off and the spinal chord dissected right out of their backs.<br />Despite an intense effort at a cover up by the Museum's management and the builder, Nora and Prendergast manage to piece together the story of Enoch Leng, and eccentric but brilliant scientist who had a laboratory in the same building that the corpses were found in.  He had long ago disappeared from sight.  To all appearances, one of the United States most prolific killers was dead and gone.  Until Bill Smithback takes Nora's story of the victims and publishes it without her permission.  Suddenly the killings start to happen all over again.  Is it a copycat, or does Enoch Leng still live?<br />This is a story with no need of special effects.  Instead, the reader is treated to the atmospherics of museum back rooms and eerie 19th century rooms full of the grotesque.  The killer wears a bowler and sports a set of antique dissection knives.  Always seeming to lurk in corners and shadows, he makes Jack the Ripper look like a fun loving womanizer.  Prendergast is the Holmes like investigator who finds his own need for compulsive secrecy has endangered everyone around him.  Nora Kelly is a tough intelligent woman who becomes more and more determined to solve the puzzle with him.  And, I'm afraid, Bill Smithback continues to play the buffoon, who parlays a frustrated quest for an apartment with Nora into a near miss with a gruesome death.<br />Some slight weakness at the end keeps this from being a perfect story but it does not miss by much.  Despite the references to previous books, there should be no trouble picking this one up and reading it first.  It gives nothing of its past away, and may very well inspire you to read some of the earlier tales.he victims and publishes it without her permission.  Suddenly the killings start to happen all over again.  Is it a copycat, or does Enoch Leng still live?<br />This is a story with no need of special effects.  Instead, the reader is treated to the atmospherics of museum back rooms and eerie 19th century rooms full of the grotesque.  The killer wears a bowler and sports a set of antique dissection knives.  Always seeming to lurk in corners and shadows, he makes Jack the Ripper look like a fun loving womanizer.  Prendergast is the Holmes like investigator who finds his own need for compulsive secrecy has endangered everyone around him.  Nora Kelly is a tough intelligent woman who becomes more and more determined to solve the puzzle with him.  And, I'm afraid, Bill Smithback continues to play the buffoon, who parlays a frustrated quest for an apartment with Nora into a near miss with a gruesome death.<br />Some slight weakness at the end keeps this from being a perfect story but it does not miss by much.  Despite the references to previous books, there should be no trouble picking this one up and reading it first.  It gives nothing of its past away, and may very well inspire you to read some of the earlier tales.	2002-06-28
1498446:US	53082946	R1EM71NDJ3LKBC	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Not with a Whimper but a Bang	Loyal Lucas Davenport fans will remember Clara Rinker, the stone killer from 'Certain Prey.'  After making her escape, she fled to Canc&uacute;n, where she established a new identity, found a lover and became pregnant.  Clara, now Cassie McLain, was on her way to a normal existence for the first time in her life.  Then a hired gun from the States makes an attempt on her life killing her boyfriend and wounding her enough to lose her child.  Clara recovers with one thing one her mind - cold, cold revenge.  Clara's going home, with some very evil plans.<br />When the FBI realize that McLain was Rinker and has returned to the States, they call in Davenport, who is, after all, the only cop to ever even come close to catching her.  Lucas, who is spending his time annoying builders and supervising his fianc&eacute;e Weather's pregnancy, reluctantly agrees.  Actually, the truth is that Weather tells him to go away and stop bothering her.  What follows is a classical chase thriller where Rinker manages to keep killing one step ahead of her pursuers.  In several cases, she even manages to rub Lucas's face in it.<br />If you are a sucker for tricks and wild plot devices, you are going to love 'Mortal Prey.'  Rinker is smart and crazy.  Each killing is detailed and jarring, full of the kind of twists that keep this from being yet another long chase.  And while Clara is certainly over the top, Sandford manages to make her a sympathetic character all on her own.  I found myself cheering for her time after time.  She is after the Mafia men who put out the hit on her and she intends to get each and every one.  That she is also capable of killing anyone in her way seems to become a matter of indifference.<br />Lucas and the FBI agents as well, repeatedly get left holding the bag.  Malone and Mallard return, along with a host of camp followers.  Davenport, true to his nature, runs his own investigation with the help of some St. Louis retired officers, and manages to keep finding almost enough clues.  Of course, it wouldn't be any fun if they caught her too early, and the little glitches and tricks that keep her out of reach are novel enough to keep the action moving without any sign of tedium.<br />Oddly enough, Sandford does such a good job of making Rinker likeable that he winds up making Davenport look a bit of a jerk.  One is tempted to think he is suffering from a bad case of premarital jitters, and that may very well be the case.  I can't consider it a major defect, because the book itself is extremely well written.  Certainly, it is a welcome return to Sandford's best form.ues.  Of course, it wouldn't be any fun if they caught her too early, and the little glitches and tricks that keep her out of reach are novel enough to keep the action moving without any sign of tedium.<br />Oddly enough, Sandford does such a good job of making Rinker likeable that he winds up making Davenport look a bit of a jerk.  One is tempted to think he is suffering from a bad case of premarital jitters, and that may very well be the case.  I can't consider it a major defect, because the book itself is extremely well written.  Certainly, it is a welcome return to Sandford's best form.	2002-06-25
1500843:US	53082946	R39NRWMIFKQM54	0873064860	456686018	Patterns in Time: Chanukah: Volume 8 (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	He Changes the Times and Appointed Moments	Before digging in for the review itself, I think it only appropriate to warn the reader is neither a retelling of the story of Chanukah nor a study of its history.  Rather, it is a study of Chanukah's significance in the Jewish faith.  For Matis Weinberg these are very different things, and this is a Talmudic study of an event with ripples far beyond the miracle that occurred 165 years before the birth of Christ.  Weinberg seeks for the patterns that Chanukah reveals and seeks to apply them to modern Jewish life, frequently surprising the reader with the turns he takes and the conclusions to which he comes.<br />The first concept to be studied is that of exile.  The time of Chanukah, during which Greece ruled Israel, is the exile where no one left, unlike the Babylonian, Assyrian, and Roman exiles.  Instead, Jews, enticed by what Greece had to offer, were exiled from their core beliefs.  At this time, Judaism as a faith came closest to real destruction.  In Chanukah, we find the key to ending all exiles, returning to our right minds, and taking another step toward the world to come.<br />The second theme introduced is that of Joseph, sold to Egypt, who by virtue of his righteousness and sense of duty guarantees the success and survival of the Jews.  Here Weinberg discusses the roles of 'charm' and 'praise' and first begins to touch on the purpose of creation and man's role in it.<br />This last theme is the most important.  Weinberg's message is that the place of man is to do his best, in contrast to the Greek and Roman model of competition and winning.  He uses the ritual of  circumcision as a symbol of the human ability to perfect what God provides.  This is a surprising and controversial viewpoint, but Weinberg builds a powerful case that is illuminating, regardless of your own opinion.<br />Weinberg's scholarship is inarguable.  His ability to draw meaning out of confusion makes this fascinating reading for those who are ready for more than the ordinary.  This is not, by any means, an easy book.  However, it reveals a great deal about the Talmudic mind and the context of Judaism and has much to reward the persistent mind.is not, by any means, an easy book.  However, it reveals a great deal about the Talmudic mind and the context of Judaism and has much to reward the persistent mind.	2002-06-23
1501657:US	53082946	R1K40TSWMNT0YN	006102063X	51458965	Moving Pictures	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	In Life You Have to Make Your Own Bricks	Somewhere in Discworld the last priest of Holy Wood shakes hands with Death and one of realities weak points (it has many) suddenly is unguarded.  Not long after, an alchemist in Ankh-Morpork suddenly figures out how to make a form of octo-cellulose that only explodes occasionally.  In no time, rolls of this miracle compound are being fed into picture boxes where tiny demons frantically paint pictures on the film.  You guessed it, the Discworld entertainment industry is about to take a great lurch forward (or maybe backward).<br />Suddenly, ancient Holy Wood was on the map, drawing people to it form all over the world.  And from outside the world as well.  In the spaces between the universes, unmentionable creatures are drawn like magnets to the thin reality of feature filmmaking.  Nor are the locals much more respectable.  Cut Me Own Throat Dibbler sells the world's most horrible sausage business and heads for tinsel town to become a mogul, trolls enroll as bit part players, and people who should never be allowed to cook, are.<br />The good guys are just as various.  Victor Tugelbend deserts wizardry, and Ginger Withel leaves the farm in order to make it big in show business.  These two reluctantly become involved in what is really going on, which is, as usual, 'the end of everything as we know it.'  But the very best character of all is poor Gaspode, the talking dog, a disgraceful looking canine who spends his time (when he isn't out drinking with his friend Laddie the Wonder Dog) keeping Victor and Ginger alive and relatively down to earth.  Gaspode is as corrupt and sneaky as they come, but he knows that it is no fun being rotten when there isn't a world to do it in.<br />'Moving Pictures' is parody and punning, as Pratchett makes fun of everything from 'Gone with the Wind' (Blown Away) to H.P. Lovecraft.  This is one of his works that is a bit short on plot, but makes it up with humor and a string of outrageous sight gags.  The portrayal of Hollywood's foibles is spot on, and you will find yourself recognizing pieces of famous films, carefully twisted to create snorts and chortles.  (You will never, ever, feel the same about King Kong again)  Even though this is not one of Pratchett's very best - try 'Small Gods' and 'The Truth' for that - it is still delightful entertainment.is spot on, and you will find yourself recognizing pieces of famous films, carefully twisted to create snorts and chortles.  (You will never, ever, feel the same about King Kong again)  Even though this is not one of Pratchett's very best - try 'Small Gods' and 'The Truth' for that - it is still delightful entertainment.	2002-06-22
1507176:US	53082946	R3M9D5RLWVUY3V	0451205812	237229878	The Ferryman	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Neck Deep	When Janine Hartschorn lost her unborn child she found herself haunted by a vision of a ferryman come to take her across the river.  His hand was out demanding the coins of his passage from her.  When she throws the coins away and refuses to accept his offer she is thrust back into life.  A life haunted also by loss and bad decisions.<br />A year ago she left her relationship with David Bairstow to return to Spencer Hahn.  But, once she became pregnant, Spencer left her.  Now she is reduced to one friend, Annette Muscari, and the persistent sensual dreams of the ferryman.  Annette is also a close friend of David's, and manages to help the two reconnect.  But something terrible has happened, something is reaching across the boundaries of dead, something intends evil.<br />This is the start of a novel that pits Charon's greed against the love and belief of a small group of people in Boston, three teachers and a priest.  Driven by repeated visits and mayhem from people magically returned from the dead, Pete, Janine, and Annette turn to Father Hugh Charles for guidance.  But there is no comfort anywhere.  Charon has become fixated on the only woman to reject his boat, and he is willing to raise the dead to destroy those he views as competition.<br />This is a disquieting and moody book, focusing as it does on loss and redemption.  Chris Golden takes an original plot device and works it in ways that are surprising for an author who not all that long ago was best known for his novels about Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  The characterization of the protagonists is excellent and believable, although the villains are left a bit too sketchy.  Even so, this volume, the first of Golden's post-Buffy work that I've read, displays a mature and effective talent.  Well worth investigating.	2002-06-17
1508176:US	53082946	R1L8BQ2ASPE4SO	0671017004	952915039	Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Better Late Than Never	I came about five years later to the story of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  I did manage to see the original film on videotape before the series started, but just barely.  I offer no excuses other than a mental inability to believe that the story of valley girl meets vampire might have more to it than the usual trashy horror flick.  Okay, I admit I was badly mistaken.  The dialog was far better than I expected, Buffy's character was complex and interesting, and the film turned out to be both funny and spooky.  Nor can one fault Joss Whedon's new take on vampire mythology.<br />I picked up this novelization of the film, the first real Buffy book, to have as a reference.  It has been long enough so that I no longer remember the film.  I had just read the graphic novel version that retells the tale with Sarah Michele Gellar instead of Kristy Swanson and suspected that it had taken a few liberties with the script (it did).  At fewer than 200 pages, the book actually takes less time to read than it does to watch the film.  Moreover, I thought it would be fun.  And so it was.<br />The plot is now so well known it hardly bears repeating.  Girl cheerleads and shops, girl meets watcher, watcher trains girl, vampires try to eat high school, girl kills vampires.  The girl is unusual in that, under the disguise of a young woman who makes shallowness an art, we find someone who is unexpectedly bright, has a strong personality and a surprising sense of duty.  In fact, the film questions many of our images of Buffy's lifestyle, from geeks to basketball stars, and does it well.<br />Richie Cusick does a great job of turning a script into a novel, which it the difficult matter of turning atmosphere and scene into meaningful words.  As I have already indicated, this is a quick, enjoyable read, and is surprisingly hard to put down.  I you are an aficionado, or simply want to find out what all the excitement has been about, this is a good book to have.	2002-06-16
1509216:US	53082946	RWRJMQUJ999VD	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	4	167	190	N	Y	Southern Fried Supernatural	The last thing Sookie wanted was to find Lafayette Reynold's body in the back Andy Bellefleur's car.  Lafayette was the cook at Merlotte's Bar, where Sookie waited on tables.  Andy was a police detective who left his car at the bar because he was too drunk to drive it home.  Now Bon Temps, Louisiana is a small rural town, where murders are mercifully rare.  However, anything like this is bound to be a major headache for Sookie, who is telepathic, and whose boyfriend is Vampire Bill, the town's major predator.  Make that ex-predator; Bill is one of the good people, getting his nourishment from artificial blood these days.  As does any vampire who wants to fit into the mainstream world.<br />But a simple murder case is not enough.  Before Sookie and Bill can look into Lafayette's death, Eric, the local vampire leader, summons them to Shreveport.  Eric has agreed to send them to Dallas, where Sookie's telepathic talents are needed to solve a disappearing vampire problem.  Even before they get to Shreveport, stuff happens.  Sookie has a run in with a maenad, who wants tribute from Eric, and decides to write him a note about it on Sookie's back.  Bill barely gets Sookie to Eric's lair, where she can be healed.  Don't expect Dallas to be any better.  There, Sookie finds herself in conflict the local anti-vampire club, 'The Fellowship of the Sun,' and scheduled for sacrifice.<br />That, in two paragraphs, is just a hint of all the contents of Charlaine Harris's latest thriller about Sookie Stackhouse, northern Louisiana's answer to Anita Blake.  And a very good answer she is.  It's unfair to make a direct comparison, since the authors have different intentions, but Sookie is a near total contrast with Laurell Hamilton's heroine.  Now no one who is a telepath and dates a vampire is 'normal,' but Sookie manages to come across as mostly 'just folks.'  As do many of the other characters in the book.  There is plenty of serious action, but Sookie's narration includes plenty of humor and wry insights as well.<br />There's quite a bit of sex as well, in case that's an issue for you.  However, it's much less complex than what Anita Blake gets into.  Harris has given Sookie's narration a straightforward, no non-sense style that will quickly make you a believer.  If you haven't read the first volume in this series, 'Dead Until Dark,' by all means do so.  Charlaine Harris has created a new kind of vampire story, part thriller, part detective story, part parody, and part romance.  And just plain fun.humor and wry insights as well.<br />There's quite a bit of sex as well, in case that's an issue for you.  However, it's much less complex than what Anita Blake gets into.  Harris has given Sookie's narration a straightforward, no non-sense style that will quickly make you a believer.  If you haven't read the first volume in this series, 'Dead Until Dark,' by all means do so.  Charlaine Harris has created a new kind of vampire story, part thriller, part detective story, part parody, and part romance.  And just plain fun.	2002-06-14
1510995:US	53082946	R2ZV7VT2EVUF32	0312877838	936164499	Shadows Bite	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	The Mage. the Stunt Man, and the Boy Without a Head	Several years ago, I read a book with the auspicious title of 'The Art of Arrow Cutting' by Stephen Dedman.  It was the enjoyable and interesting tale of Michelangelo Magistrale, a photographer, and Charlie Takumo, a stuntman.  Together they face monsters, the yakuza, and black magic.  When they are done Michelangelo is well on the way to earning his nickname, 'Mage.'<br />Now, several years later, we find that the story was not yet over.  Mage's life is sought by Haruko Higuchi, the new head of the Tamenaga clan, whose previous leader the magician killed.  Unable to find Mage, the Tamenaga make repeated attacks on Takumo and anyone else who might reveal his whereabouts.  To no avail.  Magistrale's location is well hidden, but the situation is a strain on his friends.<br />Charlie, in the meantime becomes involved a mysterious body theft.  The body in question gets up from its autopsy, climbs up to look into the window of his nurse, Gaye Lind, and finally turns up separated from his head with a mouth full of garlic. Gradually, Takumo realizes that there are all too many cases of WWD (walking while dead), even for a city like Los Angeles.  The trail leads to a cult headed by Solomon Tudor, who is running a boarding house for the terminally Goth.<br />Tudor is a black magician in his own right, and is drawn into the vampire problem when his son is converted by the dead boy's sister.  Had that not happened Solomon would have been only a moderately bad guy.  However, once Mage shows up to help Takuma things turn into a massive free-for-all with our heroes the focus of the Yakuza, the Satanists and enough vampires to keep everything jumping.<br />This is fun reading.  The book has few pretensions, but is far more than just a supernatural fight fest.  Most of the characters are well developed and interesting.  The narrative is strong, with no hint of oversimplification.  The only exception is Mage.  He is a little too shallow.  I think that too much magical power has a deleterious effect on character development.  Somehow, a player who can wiggle his fingers and make everything come out right tends to become more of a plot device than a person.  This is hardly a fatal flaw in a book that is otherwise a delight to read.leterious effect on character development.  Somehow, a player who can wiggle his fingers and make everything come out right tends to become more of a plot device than a person.  This is hardly a fatal flaw in a book that is otherwise a delight to read.	2002-06-13
1515488:US	53082946	R2VDB1YM4IOYSQ	0785108165	994567855	Essential Doctor Strange	Books	4	14	22	N	Y	No Color!! :-(	I spotted this a few months ago in the Amazon catalog and marked it as something to buy without really reading the remarks.  As such, I missed the fact that this edition was so essential that it left off the color.  Had I realized it was just black and white I probably would still have bought it, bit I would have been less disappointed when the book finally arrived.  Other than the outer cover, there really is not one jot of color.  Naturally, this doesn't interfere with the narrative or the line are, but I can't help but feel that the addition of some color work would have made this trip down nostalgia lane even more fun.<br />Doc Strange is quintessential 1960's comic bookery.  Of course, being a late bloomer, I didn't discover comic books until I was in college in the sixties.  As such, Marvel Comics defined what I thought of as 'the comic' until I discovered anime, much later.  Reading through them now leaves me with a strange, whimsical sense of nostalgia as I find myself happily absorbed in what is really some of the pompous and overblown dialog in American literature.  There is something almost Shakespearian (emphasis on 'almost') about all the posturing and declamation, but I have to admit, it was fun 40 years ago, and it still is now.<br />So, if you remember way back when, or wonder what all the to do was about, you will find this volume the appropriate Akashic introduction to the mystic world of the Ancient One, the Dread Dormammu, and the All-Seeing Eye of Aggamoto.  In the world of Marvel Comics the bad guys are really, really bad, and the good guys, well, they're out of sight.  Stan Lee's imagination is astonishing and Doctor Strange is one of his most extreme creations.  Even today, Strange would need only slight updating to remain popular with a whole new generation of readers.<br />This is the complete Doctor Strange as he appeared in Marvel's Strange Tales along with other characters like The Torch, The Thing and Nick Fury.  Most of the writing is Stan Lee's and the illustration is Steve Ditko's.  Step back to the time when comics where a big 12 cents and take a trip into the world of black (and white) magic with the marvelous Doctor Strange.Stan Lee's and the illustration is Steve Ditko's.  Step back to the time when comics where a big 12 cents and take a trip into the world of black (and white) magic with the marvelous Doctor Strange.	2002-06-09
1516288:US	53082946	R3OBK377ST3BIA	0380978857	21652145	The Golden One	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Tomb Be or not Tomb Be	The Golden One<br />I tend to stick with certain authors through a great deal of thick or thin before I give up totally.  But I have to admit that the last few of Amelia Peabody/Emerson's adventures have been a bit trying.  She and her husband Emerson have always been strong-minded to the point of obnoxiousness, but, beyond a certain point, it gets monotonous and even a little sad instead of funny.  It is quite a relief to find that Elizabeth Peters is back on track, if not headed down another path entirely.<br />Make no mistake; this is the usual heady brew of stolen antiquities, hidden tombs, Ramses' heroics and Amelia's infernal meddling.  And it is the regular cast of nearly 20 very eccentric characters.  But something special seems to have happened.  Peters has made them all lighten up and take themselves quite a bit less seriously.  Not only is the end result far less ponderous, but the tongue in cheek interplay of the characters reveals not just their faults, but many of their more endearing qualities as well.<br />The story takes place in 1917, with the Emerson's returning to Egypt for some extended digging.  They have decided to settle in for the duration of the war rather than risk being sunk by u-boats while traveling back in forth.  They arrive amid rumors that thieves have found and emptied yet another tomb.  The Emersons descend upon Luxor determined to unearth the culprits.  Of course, they quickly find that the emptied tomb isn't quite empty.  Someone seems to have left a corpse in it.<br />There was a time when this would have provided enough plot for an entire Emersonian melodrama.  But, in those days, there were four or five regular characters, not the twenty we have now.  This time Ramses is again drawn into the deadly game of spies.  It seems you can never have just one Emerson, though, and all four Emersons pile into a motorcar and race off to Gaza, behind enemy lines, checking up on a certain cousin Ismail.<br />Before the Emerson's are done, they will have baffled the Turks, terrorized the thieves, embarrassed British military intelligence, chased back and forth across the desert in search of a mysterious tomb and...  Well, suffice it to say, that almost everything that could happen does, repeatedly.  In fact, there are more than enough loose ends to guarantee a sequel.  And enough excitement to ensure that this reader will once again line up to buy it.  Be warned, this series is long past the point where it is easy to dive right in and understand all the subplots.  The book is enjoyable on its own, but seeking out some of the earlier novels in this series will make it even more rewarding.they will have baffled the Turks, terrorized the thieves, embarrassed British military intelligence, chased back and forth across the desert in search of a mysterious tomb and...  Well, suffice it to say, that almost everything that could happen does, repeatedly.  In fact, there are more than enough loose ends to guarantee a sequel.  And enough excitement to ensure that this reader will once again line up to buy it.  Be warned, this series is long past the point where it is easy to dive right in and understand all the subplots.  The book is enjoyable on its own, but seeking out some of the earlier novels in this series will make it even more rewarding.	2002-06-08
1523516:US	53082946	R3FVYQG1N3EIDL	1889554243	427765987	Proverbs (The Handbook Series) (Nihon Ki-In Handbook, Vol. 1) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Keep It Simple, Keep It Smart.	Human culture loves proverbs, i.e., those pithy little sayings that do some of out thinking for us.  Whether they are partially silly (&quot;a watched pot...&quot;) or tiresomely wise (&quot;never count your chickens...&quot;) they all contain a smidgen of truth that all too often we remember one moment too late.  It should surprise no one that the game of Go has plenty of its own proverbs as well.<br />For the most part books of Go proverbs are intended for beginners, who are looking for some easy to remember principles.  This set, from the Nihon Ki-in are no exception.  The proverbs are illustrated with excellent examples that make their points efficiently.  There is a great deal of beneficial advice here for someone who wants to get past the `being chased around the board' stage.<br />The great secret is that beginners are often too proud to read anything entitled 'Proverbs,' and insist on learning everything the hard way.  It's us guys in the middle ranks who suddenly notice our game is stuck at some point and, after reading all kinds of esoteric Go books, finally by a book like this and read it when no one is looking.  I just had one of those moments of sudden enlightenment when I encountered the proverb &quot;a one point jump is never bad.&quot;  How irritatingly simple, but the answer to a persistent problem I was having in the center.  Another favorite of mine is &quot;there is no defeat in Go.&quot;<br />This is simply one of those books that are handy to have around.  For those of us that can't stand to know we are studying Go 101 again I suggest getting a plain brown wrapper.  But don't let temporary embarrassment stop you from buying it.  That goes away the first time you thrash that really irritating opponent who has been beating you every time.	2002-06-02
1523874:US	53082946	RWK7F1K7X6B4Z	1857239881	258953624	Snow White and the Seven Samurai	Books	4	36	36	N	Y	And the Wicked Queen, the Big Bad Wolf, and Bill Gates, etc.	For some reason Tom Holt has never gotten the attention that Terry Pratchett does.  They are both comic geniuses, both very solid, imaginative writers, and both manage to be incredibly prolific.  Possibly, it is because Pratchett has chosen to set his stories in Discworld, with a regular cast of characters, and Holt starts from scratch each time.  But, without question, you can't go wrong with either one.  Providing you like to laugh, that is.<br />Somehow three little hackers (disguised as three colorblind mice) slip into the castle of the Wicked Queen and come upon her just as she is running Mirrors 3.1 on her magic mirror.  They watch as she runs 'Who_is_fairest.exe and sets an appointment in her calendar for doing away with Snow White.  As the queen slips off the hackers attempt to take control of the operating system.  No surprise, the pest control software works and the Queen returns in what is almost the nick of time.  Unfortunately, the female of the three mice turns the mirror off rather than shutting it down.  In this world, Mirrors 3.1 is the real operating system, and it doesn't take well to sudden power losses.<br />In fact, it scrambles everything in memory - which is everything.  The Wicked Queen quickly grabs her backup memory bucket (think of it as a 'wet' drive), and heads off into the magic forest to find someone who knows how to pour a full system reload.  And so begins the ultimate fractured fairy tale.  In it, you will discover that the Three Pigs have resorted to building with concrete and anti-tank weapons.  You will meet the wolf that huffs, puffs and says 'rivet.'  And find out that Snow White is fond of bondage.  You will even get to wonder 'What are these seven samurai doing in a dwarf tale.'<br />What you won't get to do is sit there, read with a grim expression, and not even utter a snicker.  Tom Holt is a wizard at the quickly set up, awful pun (&quot;two wrongs don't make us Wrights&quot; and &quot;good fencers make bad neighbors.&quot;  He has a knack for literary sight gags and the sublimely ridiculous.  His books are meant for those times when all the bits refuse to fit together and you just need to think about something else.  Or when you want to get somewhat hysterical for a few hours.  While this isn't Holt's very best effort (try 'Expecting Someone Taller' or 'Flying Dutch') it is, like all of his work, way better than any of the competition except Pratchett.uot;  He has a knack for literary sight gags and the sublimely ridiculous.  His books are meant for those times when all the bits refuse to fit together and you just need to think about something else.  Or when you want to get somewhat hysterical for a few hours.  While this isn't Holt's very best effort (try 'Expecting Someone Taller' or 'Flying Dutch') it is, like all of his work, way better than any of the competition except Pratchett.	2002-06-01
1526141:US	53082946	RTJSCIWBKSQWK	0385496958	232124605	The Treatment: A Novel	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Not All Trolls Live Under Bridges	This is the second book by Mo Hayder about Detective Inspector Jack Caffery.  I think an early warning is due that, if you have not read 'Birdman,' you need to do so before opening 'The Treatment.'  The stories overlap themes and characters extensively.  This isn't a bad thing, and if you don't like 'Birdman', you will definitely not like 'The Treatment' one bit.  The reverse, of course, is equally true.<br />Caffery is in the midst of a troubled relationship with Rebecca Morant, the artist he rescued in 'Birdman' and still deeply haunted by the memory of his brother Ewan, who disappeared some 20 years before.  Jack knows who kidnapped Ewan, but has never been able to find enough proof.  To this day Caffery has no idea if Ewan is alive or dead.<br />The horror starts with the discovery of the Peach family, has been held captive in their house and their son molested.  When the police arrive at the scene the pedophile has made his escape, with Rory Peach in hand.  He seems to vanish in the night.  The hopeless hunt for Rory brings up all of Caffery's feelings about Ewan.  Driven by his own guilt he is always in danger of taking one step too far.<br />Caffery comes to believe that another family is being victimized even though the police believe they have a suspect.  This puts him at odds with Rebecca and with Chief Inspector Daniella Souness.  However, he is determined to follow every path, discovering not only a web of pedophiles but clues to Ewan's disappearance as well.  This story does not let up to the very end, with every turn something new and grim turns up.<br />Hayder's characters are spectacular.  She manages to let you into the heads of many without ever disturbing the narrative viewpoint enough to lose focus.  Plot, action, setting and character, the vital ingredients are all there.  Be warned that this is rough ride - take my advice and don't start it at night.	2002-05-30
1527787:US	53082946	R2J4YIP7GZY3RZ	0312970633	146688147	Murder with Peacocks (Meg Langslow Mysteries)	Books	4	49	53	N	Y	If Weddings were Wishes	I am not a frequent reader of the 'cozy' mystery genre.  Not that I haven't enjoyed them over the years, but I normally go for a suspense story, with a dash of horror and a cup or two of pure detection.  So notwithstanding the large number of Lilian Braun's and Elizabeth Peter's in my library, I tend to heavier fare.  Inevitably, though, one needs a bit of light relief, based on several reviews and recommendations I decided to try Donna Andrews.  Equally unusual for me, I began with the first in the series, not the last.<br />'Murder with Peacocks' introduces a new 'investigator,' Meg Langslow.  No Miss Marple is Meg, she a young craftswoman specializing in ironmongery.  In short, she is a blacksmith.  Meg has returned home for a short time period to play wedding coordinator for three ceremonies, her best friend Eileen's, her brother Rob's, and her mother's.  These are due to take place in Yorktown, a small town in Virginia, which seems to be occupied primarily by Meg's eccentric relatives, or by those who are shortly to become her relatives.  All three brides seem determined to dump the work on Meg.  It speaks a great deal for her temperament that it is not she who commits murder.<br />The victim, when she finally arrives is the extremely unpleasant sister-in-law of Jake, Meg's future stepfather.  In the short time we get to know her, she manages to offend most of the Langslow brood, browbeat Jake, and terrorize the local children.  It is not really a surprise when she shows up dead.  It is a surprise though when Meg's father takes an interest in the case and suddenly is narrowly escaping being blown up and poisoned.  Meg's own interest is piqued when she also faces several attempts on her life.  The Langslow's eccentricity keeps saving their lives, but it us a near thing, and there are innocent bystanders to consider.<br />Into this already heady mix come Duck, an avian with a taste for devilled eggs,  a flock of peacocks who step in as the alarm system, and the incredibly handsome Michael Waterston, a university professor who is taking care of his mother's dressmaking business while she is getting a facelift.  Michael is the romantic interest, for Meg any, and is one of those rare people who has both looks and smarts.  And, lest we forget, there's Samantha, the potential sister-in-law from hell.<br />This is a true comic mystery, where even the victims are a cause for hysteric.  Andrews manages the difficult task of being delightful and grim, and manages to keep this confection of a plot spinning in the air right up to the end.  This kind of material is tough to write, since it is always in danger of interminable cuteness.  Meg has won me over, and I will be keeping a lookout for the rest of the series.incredibly handsome Michael Waterston, a university professor who is taking care of his mother's dressmaking business while she is getting a facelift.  Michael is the romantic interest, for Meg any, and is one of those rare people who has both looks and smarts.  And, lest we forget, there's Samantha, the potential sister-in-law from hell.<br />This is a true comic mystery, where even the victims are a cause for hysteric.  Andrews manages the difficult task of being delightful and grim, and manages to keep this confection of a plot spinning in the air right up to the end.  This kind of material is tough to write, since it is always in danger of interminable cuteness.  Meg has won me over, and I will be keeping a lookout for the rest of the series.	2002-05-29
1529244:US	53082946	R16WBDZRAF25VZ	0812521145	418285919	Jinx High:  A Diana Tregarde Investigation	Books	4	36	36	N	N	When Too Old is Too Young	This is the third and last of Mercedes Lackey's stories about Diana Tregarde.  Diana is a Guardian, a witch/sorcerer trained to oppose those who misuse Magick and the creatures that serve them.  This time Diana has been asked to come to a small suburb of Tulsa, Oklahoma by an old friend, Larry Kestrel.  Ostensibly, Diana is there to teach a short course in the practical side of professional writing, but Larry wants here to look into premonitions he is having about a threat to his son, Derek.<br />While there is no apparent danger to the boy, he has been mixing with a wild crowd, led by Fay Harper.  If bad mojo does not get him, his lifestyle just might.  In any case, what Diana realizes right away is that the real problem is that there isn't any problem.  Tulsa sits in the middle of a nulls zone where nothing sends out mystical signals, and not even tornadoes show up to disturb the ether.  When she checks with other guardians in the area, she discovers that there are legends of something very powerful lying asleep below the city.  Something that nothing in its right mind would ever choose to wake up.<br />No sooner does Diana start to settle into her role, when the apparent quiet is disturbed by several severe magical attacks on Monica Carlin, a new girl at the high school.  The attacks are sudden, too swift for Diana to pinpoint.  And they are strong, the world of a mature, skilled sorcerer.  This is the rub.  Unlike Diana, the reader knows from the beginning that Fay Harper is the sorcerer, who disguises her age by jumping from her body to her daughter's every 30 years.  Diana's struggles to identify this source of magic before it wakes the sleeper are limited by her inability to accept a teenager as a master sorcerer.<br />'Jinx High' is probably the best of the three books in this series, but it is not without a few irritating quirks.  If you can get by the fact that Diana's favorite expression is 'Jesus Cluny Frog,' you will probably find the story interesting and entertaining.  Lackey has a good grasp of ceremonial magic, and doesn't make the kind of oversimplifying mistakes that many writers in the magic genre are prone to make.<br />However, if Diana's faults are bearable, the characters of her high school students, villains and heroes, are less attractive.  Without exception, they have shallow and self-centered streaks that create a little too much distance between the reader and the plot.  Some people would argue that that is only reality.  But, I'm old fashioned, and like al my protagonists to be, well, protagonists.  That everyone has the same character defect doesn't build interest either.<br />For all my grumbling, this is a solid, readable story.  It is a shame that there have been no follow-ups, because Tregarde's character has finally matured.  Lackey's skills have continued to improve as well and it would be interesting to see where she would bring this series now.ing and entertaining.  Lackey has a good grasp of ceremonial magic, and doesn't make the kind of oversimplifying mistakes that many writers in the magic genre are prone to make.  <br />However, if Diana's faults are bearable, the characters of her high school students, villains and heroes, are less attractive.  Without exception, they have shallow and self-centered streaks that create a little too much distance between the reader and the plot.  Some people would argue that that is only reality.  But, I'm old fashioned, and like al my protagonists to be, well, protagonists.  That everyone has the same character defect doesn't build interest either.<br />For all my grumbling, this is a solid, readable story.  It is a shame that there have been no follow-ups, because Tregarde's character has finally matured.  Lackey's skills have continued to improve as well and it would be interesting to see where she would bring this series now.	2002-05-28
1530654:US	53082946	R2XKNVW2UP0GPJ	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The Ten Judges of Hell	This is the fourth in Jeffrey Deaver's series starring quadriplegic forensic investigator Lincoln Rhyme and his associate, Amelia Sachs.  The writer's skills continue to improve with each new effort and 'The Stone Monkey' may be his best in the series since the spectacular work in 'The Bone Collector.'<br />The primary plot of 'The Stone Monkey' turns on the fates of the passengers of the ill-fated Fuzhou Dragon, carrying illegal immigrants to the United States from southeastern China.  On board as well is the human smuggler (or snakehead) they have paid to bring them here - Kwan Ang, a psychopathic killer also known as 'The Ghost.'  When the Dragon is nearly captured by a team under the direction of Lincoln Rhyme, the Ghost cold-heartedly locks immigrants and crew alike in the hold and blows a hole in the ships side, sending it to the bottom as he makes his own escape.<br />As luck would have it, the Chang and Wu families, along with a few others, manage to escape.  Despite the Ghost's determination to kill them they reach shore before Amelia Sachs and INS can arrive and sweep them up.  They, with the Ghost in hot pursuit, disappear into the rich oriental subculture of New York City.  The Ghost is determined to kill the escaped Chinese 'piglets.'  So determined that he leaves a trail of death behind him wide enough to draw attention.  Soon he begins to find his actions and plans countered by Rhyme and the rest of the GHOSTKILL team.  Without a blink he moves to include Sachs and Rhyme among his victims.<br />Two Chinese men have a great impact on the case, and on the emotional relationship between Rhyme and Sachs.  These are John Sung and Sonny Li, both passengers on the Fuzhou Dragon as well.  Sung is a doctor and herbalist.  His calm forthright style attracts Amelia as she deals with the problems of a woman who loves a quadriplegic.  Sonny Li is a Chinese police officer, driven to hunt the Ghost down and bring him to justice one way or another.  While Li seems to be a bit of a space cadet, his brand of wisdom and insight gradually make him a friend of Rhyme.<br />Jeffrey Deaver writes true 'mind candy.'  Not only is this a story that is almost entirely pure detection with many satisfying twists and turns, it is full of facts and insights.  He reveals to us an entirely different kind of Chinese world, where good and bad frequently have entirely different meanings.  Many times Deaver traps us in our misconceptions and makes us confront situations at are a bit beyond the traditional comfort zone of the mystery novel.  And he does this all with an easy, believable style.  Expect a novel several notches above the norm.be a bit of a space cadet, his brand of wisdom and insight gradually make him a friend of Rhyme.<br />Jeffrey Deaver writes true 'mind candy.'  Not only is this a story that is almost entirely pure detection with many satisfying twists and turns, it is full of facts and insights.  He reveals to us an entirely different kind of Chinese world, where good and bad frequently have entirely different meanings.  Many times Deaver traps us in our misconceptions and makes us confront situations at are a bit beyond the traditional comfort zone of the mystery novel.  And he does this all with an easy, believable style.  Expect a novel several notches above the norm.	2002-05-26
1532888:US	53082946	R13RUJ2AJJ5DT7	0672312271	993486518	Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 Unleashed	Books	2	1	2	N	N	The Red Squiggly Thing Test.	Recently, I decided that I needed to learn a good bit more about the workings of J2EE.  Especially about its implementation using BEA's Weblogic Server.  This also requires implementing a database for object persistence.  I have had the CD for SQL Server 7.0 for a couple of years and never used it.  'Now is the time,' I told myself.<br />In very little time, I managed to get the database installed and updated.  I brought it up and started to create a couple of users and suddenly notices that the little server icon in the Enterprise Manager had a red squiggly mark next to it that had not been there before.  I did the usual magical acts, waved the cursor at it, right clicked on it, tried help, but nothing explained what it meant.  I even resorted to reading the documentation.  'Aha!' I said, 'Time to buy a book.'<br />There was not much choice at the bookstore, and I was in a hurry, so I grabbed this book and went home.  Moreover, promptly, I discovered that nowhere in 'SQL Server 7.0' was the red squiggly thing explained.  In fact, after reading a good portion of the book hoping to find and off-hand explanation, I realized that this particular book was a representative of one of my pet technical book peeves, the 800-page rehash of the manual.  Well, since the manual is online, and it is nice to have something you can make notes in it is not a complete loss.  However, actually, I would just as soon have the money.<br />Keep in mind that my objective was not to master the software, but to do a competent enough job to get on with my real agenda.  I bought this volume to be a handy extensive reference, not a paperweight.  The book's arrangement is a bit haphazard, the writing is simple enough but lacks and depth, and the index is little better than the table of contents.  It claims to be about database management, performance and architecture.  But, it does not really provide enough meat to be a good learning resource.<br />By now, I should know enough to be suspicious of anything using marketing like 'unleashed,' or 'comprehensive,' or 'authoritative.'  But, faced with the dreaded red squiggly, I did not quite know what else to do.  The good news is that squiggled or not, every thing seems to be working so far.  Hopefully there is a world where technical books are about what the say they are and manuals are easy to read.  And, hopefully, I will get there before my time runs out.f anything using marketing like 'unleashed,' or 'comprehensive,' or 'authoritative.'  But, faced with the dreaded red squiggly, I did not quite know what else to do.  The good news is that squiggled or not, every thing seems to be working so far.  Hopefully there is a world where technical books are about what the say they are and manuals are easy to read.  And, hopefully, I will get there before my time runs out.	2002-05-24
1535291:US	53082946	R1NPM2QWID5DJM	1889554162	250746016	The Art of Go Series, Vol. 1: Connecting Stones	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Building Bridges from Wishes	If you play go like I do, you spend a lot of time sticking your neck out and then scrambling for survival while your opponent tries to cut off your water.  Sometimes (too often, actually) you wind up just a little further out there than you thought you were going to be and reaching out to the safety of a stable formation becomes desperately important.  Obviously, a book entitled `Connecting Stones' was written just for the likes of us.<br />This is a puzzle book with a very specific point, how to make connections in unclear situations and rescue inner groups that are at risk.  That this happens to occasionally destroy the group you are trying to make the connection through is an extra benefit.  If murder is what you want to do then I heartily recommend the second volume in this series 'Capturing Stones.'  Wu Piao and Yu Xing alternate problems with solutions throughout in a clear style that makes occasionally obscure tactics seem obvious.<br />Don't take that to mean that these are simple puzzles.  They aren't.  The back cover insists that the problems are in order of difficulty in each chapter.  If that is true, they were all tough enough that I didn't notice the difference.  These aren't one step tesujis but carefully orchestrated maneuvers that can require you to spend time working things out on a Go board.  The second chapter \\"Linking Up by Capturing Stones\\" spends a lot of time on 'wrapping' techniques, which are every bit as spectacular as 'playing under the stones.'<br />The other chapters include \\"Connecting at the Edge of the Board,\\" \\"Utilizing Support from Friendly Forces,\\" \\"Endgame Moves,\\" and \\"Exercises and Applications.\\"  About 200 good, profitable teaching puzzles in all.  This series of intermediate puzzles from Yutopian Enterprises is one of their best, and I hope that they add more too it in the future.  See you at the tables soon.	2002-05-22
1537133:US	53082946	R2N2R21XJN3EGT	0226520862	585929953	On the Shoulders of Giants: A Shandean Postscript	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Academia Transfixed	'On the Shoulders of Giants' (which shall hereafter be referred to as OTSOG) is the quintessential study of the nature of academicism.  It is thinly disguised as a dissertation into the origin (and originality) of Newton's famous aphorism 'If I have seen farther, it is by standing on the shoulders of giants.'  However, once the reader finds himself confronted by what might or might not be an attack on Richard Burton (the one that wrote 'The Anatomy of Melancholy'), suspicions grow, and in short order one begins to understand that a leg or two is being pulled.  <br />Of course, it does not end there.  Displaying the kind of dazzling scholarship that most academics can only aspire to, Merton zigzags across the intellectual horizon on a quest for the lighter side of truth.  In doing so, he exposes many of the pretensions of scholarly work, plagiarism and specious logic. Leaving no stone unturned, we are as likely to find ourselves in pursuit of Tristram Shandy as we are to be wandering through the transept of Chartres Cathedral.  All in a mad search to uncover who really used OTSOG first.<br />It needs to be said that Merton is, on his own, an extremely respected sociologist, one who often has used the scientific and academic world as the focus of his remarkable eye.  OTSOG sets out to make points by mimicking its subjects rather than lecturing about them.  Whimsical and witty, it still touches on serious issues while exposing a great deal of fascinating minutia.  Certainly it is a one of a kind work that enjoys a large cult following among those who are reluctant to take themselves seriously.  Look out for Umberto Eco's foreword and Merton's riposte-face as well.	2002-05-21
1537885:US	53082946	RU63TCB1YSUHV	0802136036	83667253	Man with an Axe (Detective Sergeant Mulheisen, Book 7)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Life on the Cutting Edge	This is my first exposure to Jon Jackson's Sergeant Mulheisen mysteries, so the reader will have to forgive me if I have missed any of the continuity.  I was attracted to the book because I am a long time Detroit area resident, and I wanted to see what a Jackson had done with familiar turf.  I anticipated the hard-boiled nature of the story, but was surprise (pleasantly) by Jackson's penchant for characters that at tough, but have some extra bit of intelligence or skill.  They don't always shoot at each other; sometimes they do a jazz solo instead.<br />'Man with an Axe' is, on one level, the ultimate Jimmy Hoffa story.  Hoffa's rise to power and his complete and mysterious disappearance are the quintessential Detroit story.  The stuff of which urban legends are made.  Jackson does a creditable job or creating the legend anew, told from the view point of Mulheisen's old partner, Grootka.  The story is in layers, first the tale of Hoffa, then the tale of Grootka himself, and finally Mulheisen's own story in present day Detroit.  Each tale contains its share of things larger than life; and all seem orchestrated posthumously by Grootka's ghost.<br />The story spans many of Detroit's subcultures, from Mafia to up-scale black.  There is a persistent jazz theme that runs through it, and, in many cases, the rhythms of improvisation unfold in the text.  It is tempting for a reviewer to overuse the jazz metaphor, for it is inescapable.  Mulheisen's task at hand is to discover why there has been a sudden increase in curiosity about Hoffa's death.  To do that he must discover what really happened in the first place.  Hoffa's story starts out with a chance meeting with a talented saxophone player and ends in a cabin up north.  But, Grootka realized that it wouldn't end there and laid out a plan that will bring it to closure years later.  If Fang Mulheisen can get far enough into Grootka's head to figure it out without getting shot himself.<br />I found the characters interesting and whimsical, from gangsters to jazzmen.  To be honest, the story has many echoes of Detroit as it is and was, but Mulheisen's town is still a city of the imagination rather than reality.  I don't think that is a flaw, for this Detroit is far more interesting than the one in which I work.  Jackson gives it a spooky glamour that is hard to pin down.  In evidence is the skill of a sharp storyteller who deserves far more critical notice than he has gotten.  My feeling is that I would have benefited from reading a few stories from earlier in the series, simply for more familiarity with the characters.  Otherwise, it stands quite well on its own.g and whimsical, from gangsters to jazzmen.  To be honest, the story has many echoes of Detroit as it is and was, but Mulheisen's town is still a city of the imagination rather than reality.  I don't think that is a flaw, for this Detroit is far more interesting than the one in which I work.  Jackson gives it a spooky glamour that is hard to pin down.  In evidence is the skill of a sharp storyteller who deserves far more critical notice than he has gotten.  My feeling is that I would have benefited from reading a few stories from earlier in the series, simply for more familiarity with the characters.  Otherwise, it stands quite well on its own.	2002-05-20
1539291:US	53082946	R7A9MHQ1YA3CN	4906574211	740520369	Dictionary of Basic Joseki, Vol. 1 (Intermediate to Advanced Go Books)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Bones on Which the Game Is Built	Joseki are sequences of play, normally in the corners of the Go board, but sometimes on the sides.  Basically, a joseki is intended to be of equal benefit to both players.  Sometimes the players split the territory, sometimes one gets territory and one gets influence.  They are not really 'fixed' patterns, although beginners are encouraged to memorize several.  Instead, there are countless variations.  The art of choosing which Joseki to play in what corner is a crucial part of the early stage of the game, with the fuseki or whole board opening giving way to the Joseki and finally to the tactical warfare of the middle and end games.<br />There are some 20,000 of these patterns that have identified and evaluated, although far fewer are in common usage.  Still, the number one needs to be at least familiar with can seem daunting.  Hence, the importance of something like the 'Dictionary of Basic Joseki.'  Ishida Yoshio patiently works through some 209 joseki (80 in this first volume) in enough depth to give the reader some sense of confidence as he or she approaches them in a real game.  Do not expect real deep dives however, simply enough information to make sensible choices and get a good game under way.<br />Yoshio Ishida focuses on popular joseki for the 3-4, 5-3, 5-4, 4-4 (star point), and 3-3 point.  Volume one is all about the 3-4 point, which is a very good reason to make sure to track down the other two volumes.  I'm a fan of star point openings in even games, and they are also vital in handicap games, so volume three is possibly more important than volume one.  Other writers, such as Sakata Eio, have made studies of particular joseki, but nothing approaches the general coverage of this set in the English language.<br />I have to admit I have the least patience for learning joseki.  I find the fuseki phase fascinating, but joseki study is frustrating because the stronger player will often deviate from the pattern to introduce some confusion.  Thus, the key to study is not learning the pattern, but learning what to do when one's opponent does something he should not.  This set of books manages to give me that information without trying my patience too greatly.  They have been reprinted recently in 2001 and should still be readily available from the publisher (Kiseido) if Amazon cannot provide them.tudy is not learning the pattern, but learning what to do when one's opponent does something he should not.  This set of books manages to give me that information without trying my patience too greatly.  They have been reprinted recently in 2001 and should still be readily available from the publisher (Kiseido) if Amazon cannot provide them.	2002-05-19
1539450:US	53082946	R301LMFUTZJ8M1	0060164573	616125621	Selected Poems 1947-1995	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I Saw the Best Minds of My Generation	It is daunting to undertake the review of a book of Allen Ginsberg's poems.  If fact, it is impossible.  The extent of his talent, his willingness to experiment, the number of broad themes that run through his work, defy any four-paragraph explication.  This collection of poems, selected and edited by Ginsberg himself is really the poet's last oversight of his own life.  In four hundred pages covering nearly fifty years we are given not a collection of poetry, but an interior autobiography.<br />Ginsberg died in 1997, of the complications of Hepatitis C, the same year I discovered that I was suffering from the same disease.  His death was untimely, not in the sense that he died too young, but because his creativity, the unique vision that allowed him to be critical, sarcastic, caring and brutally honest had not yet exhausted itself.  'Selected Poems' captures his many facets, from the anger of 'Howl' to the whimsy of 'The Ballad of the Skeletons.'  One of my favorites is the simply early 'Song' that opens with \\"The weight of the world is love.\\"  This is the poem that circulated the Internet when he died.<br />Ginsberg is often perceived as a political or social poet, voicing first the concerns of the Beats and then the Anti-War movement.  He is always questioning the motivation of those in authority, and those that were not as well.  This collection also explores his open homosexuality and his long spiritual quest.  Ginsberg's poetry is himself.  For all his technical brilliance, what we remember in the reading is the intensity of his presence in his poems.  Filled with knowledge, Ginsberg was not the kind to resort to academicism.<br />'Selected Poems' is a lean presentation.  A short preface by Ginsberg leads off; followed by poems in order by appearance, arranged by the volumes they appeared in.  A section at the end contains fragmentary notes and comments by the poet on the individual poems.  Yet I am happy that I have this volume of his work rather than something more complete.  For this is the work that Ginsberg, in retrospect, felt was important, and I think you will agree.  As the poet said, \\"I didn't come here to solve anything.  I came here to sing and for you to sing with me.\\"ng more complete.  For this is the work that Ginsberg, in retrospect, felt was important, and I think you will agree.  As the poet said, \\"I didn't come here to solve anything.  I came here to sing and for you to sing with me.\\"	2002-05-18
1540563:US	53082946	RTO54K9KFNF2M	0553111132	574421178	Justice Hall	Books	5	22	26	N	Y	Justitia Fortitudo Mea Est	Laurie King's series about Sherlock Holmes and Mary Russell always puzzle me.  Except for one or two less successful efforts, she has managed to create the impossible Holmes gimmick - a Mrs. Holmes, and makes it (and her) utterly believable.  Rather than twist Holmes character so that he turns into a romanticized parody of himself, she has made Mary Russell the only woman the consulting detective could have married and remained himself.  That Laurie King has proved herself an adept writer in this and her other series about Kate Martinelli is sufficient to ensure that I regularly buy her work.<br />'Justice Hall' is the seat of one of England's blue-blooded ducal families, the Hughenforts.  Whose motto (in English) is 'Righteousness is my strength.'  They have been fiercely loyal to the throne of England for nearly 1000 years, but now find themselves in rather peculiar circumstances.  The current duke has no desire for the job.  Much to Holmes' and Russell's surprise, Marsh Hughenfort is an old friend, but in a difference guise.  The seventh duke and his best friend Alistair are Mahmoud and Ali, agent's of the British, and the heroes of another King novel, 'O Jerusalem.'<br />Ali, determined to free Marsh from the tyranny of his title, has brought the Holmes family in to investigate the credibility of a potential heir.  But the case grows more complex as attempted murder rears it's ugly head, and Holmes becomes convinced that the silence around the wartime death of Gabriel, the heir who preceded Marsh hides a secret that will untangle the current perplex.  Gabriel was shot for mutiny in the trenches of Europe, but the tragedy has been carefully hidden away by all concerned.  When Marsh is nearly killed in a hunting accident Sherlock and Mary realize that there is some evil behind what has happened to the Hughenfort heirs.  The chase leads then through England, Europe and off to Canada as well.<br />One of the remarkable things about this novel is the first quarter of it, which is, for the most part, dedicated to a loving description of Justice Hall, its environs, and its people.  For those who are patient, this is a remarkable essay on the beauties of architecture and place.  The beginnings of the mystery and all the characters come to life against a background which, if it does not exist, certainly should.  If Laurie King ever takes up travelogues, I will not doubt read them.  Once this is done, the novel picks up pace rapidly, and by the end the reader will be as stunned by the plot as he or she was entranced by the place.<br />Another interesting facet of a very rich and complex novel is King's exposure of the horrors of World War I, in particular the excessive harshness the British Army inflicted on its own soldiers.  306 men were shot at dawn for desertion, cowardice, and, occasionally, simply to teach their men a lesson.  Most of these were still in their teens, struggling with a brutal war that they only half understood.  This punishment was abolished in 1930, but despite re-examination of the cases, the British Secretary of Defense has refused to make any posthumous pardons.  King picks up this theme and makes it one of the driving forces behind what I believe is her best effort yet.it, which is, for the most part, dedicated to a loving description of Justice Hall, its environs, and its people.  For those who are patient, this is a remarkable essay on the beauties of architecture and place.  The beginnings of the mystery and all the characters come to life against a background which, if it does not exist, certainly should.  If Laurie King ever takes up travelogues, I will not doubt read them.  Once this is done, the novel picks up pace rapidly, and by the end the reader will be as stunned by the plot as he or she was entranced by the place.<br />Another interesting facet of a very rich and complex novel is King's exposure of the horrors of World War I, in particular the excessive harshness the British Army inflicted on its own soldiers.  306 men were shot at dawn for desertion, cowardice, and, occasionally, simply to teach their men a lesson.  Most of these were still in their teens, struggling with a brutal war that they only half understood.  This punishment was abolished in 1930, but despite re-examination of the cases, the British Secretary of Defense has refused to make any posthumous pardons.  King picks up this theme and makes it one of the driving forces behind what I believe is her best effort yet.	2002-05-17
1542806:US	53082946	R1WFWXZVU2PSZQ	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Working Backwards	It is one of those accidents of a reviewer's fate that both of the mysteries I just finished reading turn on events in the past, rather than current mysteries. Each deals with this differently (the other was Laurie King's \\"Justice Hall\\"), but the reader knows from the beginning that it is the unfolding of a past tragedy that holds the keys to a puzzle taking place in the present. In Hillerman's tale, the past is recovered in fragmentary moments until it becomes a grim intruder in the present.<br />In the present, Officer Bernadette Manuelito finds a man curled up dead on a truck seat in the desert. Mistakenly assuming it was an accidental drunken death she inadvertently mishandles what turns out to be a crime scene and finds herself in trouble. And so, Sgt. Jim Chee and Lt. Joe Leaphorn enter the case partly to help Bernadette, and partly to carry out agendas of their own. Chee because he dislikes the FBI and likes Bernadette, and Leaphorn because evidence in this case reminds him of another one where Wiley Denton killed a swindler, and Wiley's wife vanished without a trace.<br />There is a Navaho legend of a Wailing Woman seeking in the desert for a lost child. Years ago, when Denton made his kill in self-defense, several students heard a woman's cries out in the nearly deserted bunkers of Fort Wingate. But it was Halloween, and the police filed the report away, more interested in the killing they could see. Years later Leaphorn is still haunted by that story and has never stopped wondering where Mrs. Linda Denton had gone.<br />The three investigators pursue the case separately and together, until the threads begin to point to a set of conclusions that will both surprise and please the reader. One cannot help but enjoy a tale which mixes Indian ways with police work, where lore provides just as many clues as the forensic specialists do. Hillerman paints with a fine light brush, never using too many words where few will do, but never being so sparse that believability suffers.<br />The characters, of course, are treasures. Waitresses and professors, shamans and tycoons all develop enough presence to remain memorable. No one appears by accident, whether they provide clues or comic relief. Leaphorn's relationship with Louisa Bourbonette developed with dry wisdom, and the chemistry between Jim Chee and Officer Manuelito intensifies, providing some interesting counterpoint to the story at hand. This is something like the fifteenth of Hillerman's tales of the Southwestern reservations, and he shows no sign of slacking off.ity suffers.<br />The characters, of course, are treasures. Waitresses and professors, shamans and tycoons all develop enough presence to remain memorable. No one appears by accident, whether they provide clues or comic relief. Leaphorn's relationship with Louisa Bourbonette developed with dry wisdom, and the chemistry between Jim Chee and Officer Manuelito intensifies, providing some interesting counterpoint to the story at hand. This is something like the fifteenth of Hillerman's tales of the Southwestern reservations, and he shows no sign of slacking off.	2002-05-15
1545347:US	53082946	R2DK0Y2X13PL9X	9997502558	766369651	The Gyrth Chalice Mystery	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Rite of Passage	\\"The Gyrth Chalice Mystery\\" was the first Allingham mystery I read.  By coincidence, I was then the same age Allingham was when she wrote it (despite there being several wars in between).  I was immediately taken with the story with its heady mix of adventure, English snobbery, humor and the supernatural.  When I was done reading I was a British mystery addict and an eternal fan of Albert Campion, Allingham's detective.<br />I am much older now, and this is the third or fourth time I've reread this novel.  I can only report that it gets better with age.  Unlike some authors whose work is best remembered rather than reexperienced, Margery Allingham's works are every bit as much fun now as they were then.  Perhaps the secret of their long popularity is that they are the highest order of entertainment, full of adventure and humor.<br />In 'The Gyrth Chalice Mystery' Campion's assignment is the protection of the ancient Gyrth chalice from theft by a nefarious ring of art collectors.  The secret of the chalice is passed from fathers to sons on their 25th birthday, and this is the time that the chalice is most vulnerable.  Campion must first track down the current heir, Percival, and bring him home for the ceremony.  No sooner is this accomplished when Percival's somewhat flaky aunt is frightened to death by the 'chalice monster.'  With that we are off and running.<br />Allingham does her usual best to delight and bemuse, mixing forgers, racing people, gypsies, academics and other English country folks of every sort and form into the heady stew which is a Campion adventure.  Campion has matured tremendously since the first novels and is in full possession of his role as the somewhat zany yet brilliant master of the chase.  Allingham doesn't write mystery stories as such.  Often she gives the villain of the piece away and the real mystery is how Campion will manage to save the day.  \\"The Gyrth Chalice\\" is just such a tale.  The ending comes as a complete surprise and adds a dimension to the tale, which makes it especially remarkable and memorable.a dimension to the tale, which makes it especially remarkable and memorable.	2002-05-13
1547295:US	53082946	R320SWFDNEW6I0	0971855056	484500374	Reflections of a Vampire	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Bite Too Far	This interesting, if somewhat quirky, tale is the story of Arnaud St. Larue, a vampire who is coming to the end of his first millennium and needs to take an eighteen month nap to revitalize.  In not quite a week Larue must acquire some fledglings or minions who will guard and tend his nesting spot while he sleeps the long sleep of the dead.  This is made a bit more complicated by the fact that he is pursued by agents of the Daemonion Council and by his vampire father, a sorcerer of considerable strength, and a perpetual meddler in the affairs of Arnaud and his beloved sister, Brigitte.<br />St. Larue also has become entranced by the idea of writing his memoirs, causing a publisher and a ghostwriter endless grief, and greatly upsetting his fellow vampires.  Finally, Arnaud has become infected by a strange form of aids, that exaggerates his normally gruesome feeding habits and predisposes him to careless violence.  As a result, the police, in the person of Detective Solomon Wiese become aware of him, and adding further risk to St. Larue's continued survival.<br />On the surface, this story reads a bit like a hybrid of 'Interview with a Vampire' and 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer.'  Sexy French vampires who turn into horrific monsters when the hunger is upon them.  Creatures with an array of powers awesome enough to make them virtually unconquerable.  They fly, change shape, grow extra appendages, ride on the outside of airplanes, and write memoirs with the speed of summer lightning.  In fact, the humans fare very poorly by comparison in this story, and the only thing that seems to be effective against Kirk's inventions is their own coquettish unpredictability.<br />Damion Kirk does a fine job with his characters, who are uniformly interesting in novel ways.  This is less a horror story than a comedy of terrors, made notable by the conversation and action that embellish what would otherwise be a straightforward plot.  In this environment conversation and inner dialogue take on great importance, and Kirk seems as comfortable with this challenge as he is with the many intricacies of plot he introduces.  Kirk has bent for taking an original viewpoint.  He is, to date, the only writer in some time who noticed that it is humans, not vampires, who are unable to see vampire reflections.<br />In the end, it will not be Kirk's skill or the amount of violence or romance that will decide the reader's reaction to 'Reflections of a Vampire,' but how one feels about his style of vampire.  This is a problem, which plagues all writers in this genre.  What powers, what vulnerabilities, are they forces of nature or spirit?  These questions directly affect the believability of the plot and the atmospherics of the tale.  Personally, I found St. Larue too powerful for the purposes of the story.  The same is true of his father, who is an even more extreme variation on the same theme.  When vampires approach invulnerability and have a vast number of powers to call on, the plot has no choice but to become whimsical with the vampire acting as deus ex machina.  I found the story quite enjoyable despite this, and many will be far less bothered by it than I am.  As such I think this is a tale worth pursuing.on great importance, and Kirk seems as comfortable with this challenge as he is with the many intricacies of plot he introduces.  Kirk has bent for taking an original viewpoint.  He is, to date, the only writer in some time who noticed that it is humans, not vampires, who are unable to see vampire reflections.<br />In the end, it will not be Kirk's skill or the amount of violence or romance that will decide the reader's reaction to 'Reflections of a Vampire,' but how one feels about his style of vampire.  This is a problem, which plagues all writers in this genre.  What powers, what vulnerabilities, are they forces of nature or spirit?  These questions directly affect the believability of the plot and the atmospherics of the tale.  Personally, I found St. Larue too powerful for the purposes of the story.  The same is true of his father, who is an even more extreme variation on the same theme.  When vampires approach invulnerability and have a vast number of powers to call on, the plot has no choice but to become whimsical with the vampire acting as deus ex machina.  I found the story quite enjoyable despite this, and many will be far less bothered by it than I am.  As such I think this is a tale worth pursuing.	2002-05-12
1547753:US	53082946	R3RC8XYMHADTEC	0152017968	424466094	The Moon of Gomrath: A Tale of Alderley	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Calling the Wild Hunt	In this modern era, elves fare poorly.  Creatures of light, the air is no longer clean to them, and they are too crowded by human construction.  Atlendor's people are on their way north beyond the Bannawg to far Prydein, to aid the last kingdom of the elves.  But they must stop to rest and recover with Cadellin Silverbrow in the caves of the Fundindelve.  And thus unsuspecting, they are drawn into battle when the Brollochan, an ancient terror, is inadvertently set free.<br />In this is the sequel to 'The Wierdstone of Brisingamen' we finds young Susan and her brother Colin still staying at Highmost Redmanhey.  Their time with Gowther and Bess Mossock in Cheshire has been peaceful since the defeat of Selena Place (the Morrigan).  Now that time comes to an end, when, seeking to speak with Cadellin, they become part of the hunt for the Brollochan.  For the first time they meet with Albanac, one of the elder men, and the dwarf, Uthecar Hornskin.  And proud Atlendor who is impatient to continue north.<br />Shortly thereafter, the Brollochan seizes control of Susan's body, and it is only by virtue of her bracelet, the Mark of Fohla, that it is driven off.  Then Colin must undertake a quest along the old, straight track to find the magic that will bring Susan back to the living.  But unlike the first volume in this series, this time there is a price for the use of Angharad Goldenhand's bracelet.  It calls on an older magic than that of Cadellin, and soon ancient forces walk the land.  And this is only the beginning, as the children find they must once again do battle with the Morrigan to protect the human world from the dark powers that lurk on its edge.<br />Once again, Alan Garner creates a world half from his own imagination and half from the vivid tales and legends of the British countryside.  Evil palugs and fierce bodachs course through the night in a landscape filled with strange places and names that seem to have double and triple meanings.  Best of all, the Old Magic is awakened, and the Wild Hunt rides again.  There is so much in this short volume that the reader is literally stunned into belief.<br />Garner does not people his books with an excess of characters, and all, from Colin to Cadellin are larger than life.  Everyone plays true to archetype, but all are individuals with their own wisdom.  And so there are few players that one cannot come to love.  In a tale that is a conflict between good and evil, Garner does not let the good become shallow or too monochromatic.  The Moon of Gomrath is a powerful story at all levels, from child's adventure to morality play, and resonates long after the last page is turned.  Garner proves once again that magic is never really lost.Magic is awakened, and the Wild Hunt rides again.  There is so much in this short volume that the reader is literally stunned into belief.<br />Garner does not people his books with an excess of characters, and all, from Colin to Cadellin are larger than life.  Everyone plays true to archetype, but all are individuals with their own wisdom.  And so there are few players that one cannot come to love.  In a tale that is a conflict between good and evil, Garner does not let the good become shallow or too monochromatic.  The Moon of Gomrath is a powerful story at all levels, from child's adventure to morality play, and resonates long after the last page is turned.  Garner proves once again that magic is never really lost.	2002-05-11
1547987:US	53082946	R32MSJ654FGLON	0451458753	563314335	Angry Lead Skies	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	Not All the Lights in the Skies are Stars	Set in TunFaire, a city that was corrupt before dinosaurs ever learned to count, P.I. Garrett's adventures among the magical, the crooked, and the nasty (often at the same time) have been entertaining readers since 1997.  TunFaire is the gem of the Karentine, a city where magic is generally bad news, racial violence between species is a commonplace, and you can find or buy anything if you have the wherewithal to acquire it.  There Garrett has set up shop with his partner, the Dead Man - who is a Loghyr (think 500 pound telepathic elephant) who has been dead for 400 years and alternates between messing with Garrett's mind and taking naps.<br />Garrett does not lack for friends, if friends are what you would call them.  There's Morley the full time restaurateur and part time crook, Saucerhead Tharpe,  Dojango, Martha and Doris (the last three are all guys... guy grolls, that is).  Then there in Playmate, a ministerial blacksmith who gets people like Garrett involved in plots like the one in 'Angry Lead Skies.'  Ostensibly, Playmate wants Garrett to keep an eye on young Kip Prose, who has suddenly developed the ability to invent things.  Things like tricycles, lead pencils, and weird gadgets with gears.  It seems like Kip has befriended some strange silver elves and, suddenly, his head is full of ideas.<br />It doesn't take Garret too long to find out that the strange silver elves and the saucers and lights whizzing around the TunFaire skies are somehow related.  And that too many people are interested in Kip's sudden rush of inventiveness.  Soon Gerrett is neck deep in a chase that seems guaranteed to get him knocked out every four hours.  Soon, the attention of TunFaire's regular cast of politicians and wizards turns to Garret's antics, and to the ever-increasing numbers of a new kind of elf that shoots back with a vengeance.  The P.I. finds that there is always somebody spying on him, visible, invisible, parrot or pixie.<br />The good side of the case is that Garrett finds himself surrounded by the kind of women he likes best.  Possessive and adorable.  There are his regular ladies, Tinny, Alyx, and Katie.  Then his new partner is the rat woman Singe, who can out track everyone else, and think circles around most of what TunFaire considers human.  Rat people are on the bottom of the social scale in TunFaire, but Singe is well on her way to prove that there is much more to the story of the Rat people than most are willing to admit.<br />And so, once again, Glen Cook has managed to write a science fiction story from the viewpoint of those that live in a fantasy world, begging the question of what is magic, and what is not.  He takes this heady concoction and turns it into the kind of tough guy mystery tale which would appeal in whatever setting it found itself.  With titles that mimic John D. MacDonald.  All of Cook's stories in this series combine a sarcastic sense of humor with a slightly bent set of morals (on everyone's part).  But, mixed in are reflections of current events in our own world.  Garrett's occasional reminiscences of the Tarantine war carry echoes of Cook's Black Company books, and of the Viet Nam conflict that lies behind both of the fantasy conflicts.  This ability to write in layers is what makes Glen Cook a remarkable author who never fails to give a reader pleasure.ett finds himself surrounded by the kind of women he likes best.  Possessive and adorable.  There are his regular ladies, Tinny, Alyx, and Katie.  Then his new partner is the rat woman Singe, who can out track everyone else, and think circles around most of what TunFaire considers human.  Rat people are on the bottom of the social scale in TunFaire, but Singe is well on her way to prove that there is much more to the story of the Rat people than most are willing to admit.<br />And so, once again, Glen Cook has managed to write a science fiction story from the viewpoint of those that live in a fantasy world, begging the question of what is magic, and what is not.  He takes this heady concoction and turns it into the kind of tough guy mystery tale which would appeal in whatever setting it found itself.  With titles that mimic John D. MacDonald.  All of Cook's stories in this series combine a sarcastic sense of humor with a slightly bent set of morals (on everyone's part).  But, mixed in are reflections of current events in our own world.  Garrett's occasional reminiscences of the Tarantine war carry echoes of Cook's Black Company books, and of the Viet Nam conflict that lies behind both of the fantasy conflicts.  This ability to write in layers is what makes Glen Cook a remarkable author who never fails to give a reader pleasure.	2002-05-11
1555873:US	53082946	R14ZBGZSD0F432	0152017666	900270918	The Weirdstone of Brisingamen: A Tale of Alderley	Books	5	27	28	N	N	For the Want of a Horse	When the wizard Cadellin took up his guardianship of 140 knights who await the final battle, he had yet to acquire one last horse.  When he did so, the price was higher than he expected, for the seller took the stone Firefrost, the key that keeps the knights asleep and would wake them when they were needed.  And so, it was lost to the sight of Cadellin.<br /> This is the past that shapes the story of young Susan and Colin, children sent to stay with Gowther and Bess Mossock in Cheshire while their parents are abroad.  For unknown to her, Susan bears the Wierdstone itself and the children quickly find themselves at the center of a great struggle between what is fair and what is utterly evil.<br />They will be menaced but the evil svarts and rescued by Cadellin.  They will see Firefrost fall into the hands of the witch, Selena Place and Grimnir, the dark wizard.  In the company of Gowther and two dwarves, Fenodree and Durathor they will snatch the stone back from the hands of the morthbrood and quest through tunnel, cave and forest to return it to Cadellin.  And they will face a final battle at the edge of Ragnarok.<br />In an era of fantasy writing when we expect lengthy trilogies as a matter of course, it is amazing how few of them stand up to the standard set by this little (195 page) tale for young readers.  Garner is a brilliant writer, who knows exactly how phrase his words so that they gain magical weight and shape without ever becoming over blown and stilted.  From the first paragraph, the reader knows that this is something special and is quickly drawn into the world that lies behind the mundane appearances of rural Cheshire.  Trees menace, mansions conceal passages to the underworld, and wizards live behind stones and under lakes.  If animals do not talk, they certainly 'know,' and that is even better.<br />I have read this book several times, and if I regret anything, it is that is was not there for me when I was the age for which it was originally intended.  But Alan Garner writes for the child we never leave behind, and the book remains entirely enchanting to me.  Still a native of Cheshire, Garner captures the sounds and accents of that countryside with a sure pen.  The story may remind you of Tolkien and C. S. Lewis, but it is not at all derivative.  Rather, it stands with them as one of the fine moments of British fantasy.  By all means, give this book to your children, but do not forget to read it yourself.ed.  But Alan Garner writes for the child we never leave behind, and the book remains entirely enchanting to me.  Still a native of Cheshire, Garner captures the sounds and accents of that countryside with a sure pen.  The story may remind you of Tolkien and C. S. Lewis, but it is not at all derivative.  Rather, it stands with them as one of the fine moments of British fantasy.  By all means, give this book to your children, but do not forget to read it yourself.	2002-05-04
1556887:US	53082946	R24U2KFT52BNI1	0812522729	274840078	Children of the Night: A Diana Tregarde Investigation	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Cry for Help	This is the second of three books that Mercedes Lackey has written about Diana Tregarde, a psychic investigator and 'Guardian' whose job is to struggle with occult evil.  The story is set in New York City, where Diana is working at an occult supply store making ends meet while she begins a career as a writer of romance novels.  On this particular workday, she finds herself faced with an energy-draining hunter, a gypsy boy on the run from an unknown danger, and a different kind of hunter pursuing the first.  Diana retreats to her apartment, baffled by these events.<br />Elsewhere in the city, a bus with a ghostly driver runs its route, delivering death to its passengers.  One of these is the close friend of and lover of people who are dear to Diana.  When Lenny and Keith call her from the morgue, she rushes down to discover that something has torn the living soul from the victim, leaving him a worse than empty husk.  Then the gypsy boy turns up dead in a nearby alley and Diana finds herself confronting the vampire that failed to protect him.  Diana's investigations will bring back some of her worst fears, panic attacks that linger from a time when she almost failed.<br />Somewhere else, a rock band relaxes at a Halloween party and they take a drug that makes a tiny adjustment to their metabolism.  They find themselves feeding first on the appreciation and then on the fear, of their audiences.  For all but Dave Kendall, once Diana's lover, this is a one-way spiral down to the darkest evil.  Diana's energy hunter has made them, and a strange Japanese monster, a Gaki, is his companion.  The Gaki takes what the energy vampires leave behind, the soul.  To fight these creatures, human and not, Diana, Lenny and Keith team up with the most unlikely fourth, a true vampire.  Even so, they are almost beaten before they start.<br />'Children of the Night' is very much the best of the three Tregarde tales, and I would even go so far as to name it one of her best stories over all.  She lavishes enough attention on the characters to make them all believable individuals.  The story is one that naturally keeps the reader's attention, replete with the embellishment that adds interest, and that has become so rare in modern storytelling.  And the romantic byplay between Diana and Andre LaBrel, the vampire, is done just right.  It is a shame that Diana Tregarde never went beyond the three volumes.  But, Lackey's writing skills are such that she does not like to get stuck in a groove, and for that I cannot blame her.  Maybe, some day soon, we will meet Diana again.She lavishes enough attention on the characters to make them all believable individuals.  The story is one that naturally keeps the reader's attention, replete with the embellishment that adds interest, and that has become so rare in modern storytelling.  And the romantic byplay between Diana and Andre LaBrel, the vampire, is done just right.  It is a shame that Diana Tregarde never went beyond the three volumes.  But, Lackey's writing skills are such that she does not like to get stuck in a groove, and for that I cannot blame her.  Maybe, some day soon, we will meet Diana again.	2002-05-03
1558308:US	53082946	R1T4VXDYAHPULZ	0805241132	571123021	The Book of Legends/Sefer Ha-Aggadah: Legends from the Talmud and Midrash	Books	5	59	61	N	Y	The Creative Core Judaism	It is hard to believe that it was only so far back as 1908 that Russian poet Hayim Bialik and editor Yehoshua Ravnitsky put their heads together to create the Sefer Ha-Aggadah, a compendium of legends, history and lessons from the Talmud and the Midrash.  Originally, in Hebrew (much of that translated from the Aramaic) it was finally translated into English by William Braude, appearing in 1992.  Until that time, much of the material covered was only available to students of the Talmud, a loss to many generations of Jews as well as other of different faiths around the world.<br />Irreverently, I think of 'The Book of Legends' as the 'juicy parts' redaction of the some of the most important bodies of work in the Jewish faith.  The Talmud is composed of both law and legend, and the stones of that law grind exceedingly fine.  To be honest, I am much more drawn to the lore and legends; because I believe it is there that the true center of the Jewish spirit can be found.  Whether it be the story of Solomon's struggles with demon kind, or the thoughts of the sages on the nature of God, this is the imagination and the heart of thousands of years of belief.<br />Am I exaggerating?  I don't know.  But this material has lived as oral tradition from generation to generation, and now we are able to hold it in printed form, simply to read or for research.  Bialik and Ravnitsky put an immense effort into gather the material together from many diverse sources, and then managing to arrange it is such a fashion that it is accessible.  The first parts are organized in accordance with Jewish biblical history, and then as the deeds of the Sages.  Following sections turn to Israel's place in the world, the nature of God, man, his community and the world itself.  This adds up to a mighty volume of over 800 large pages of small print.<br />I won't pretend that this is easy reading.  Much is, but just as much contains the cryptic and dense style one would expect from material that has lived long as verbal tradition.  But both the original compilers and the translator have done their utmost to bring much that was almost secret into the light.  For me it contains the answers to many of the puzzles of Jewish history and belief.  And a whole new set of questions to ask and think about.  I hope it does the same for you.long as verbal tradition.  But both the original compilers and the translator have done their utmost to bring much that was almost secret into the light.  For me it contains the answers to many of the puzzles of Jewish history and belief.  And a whole new set of questions to ask and think about.  I hope it does the same for you.	2002-05-02
1559898:US	53082946	RZ6V9RD88MWDU	189206524X	57213660	Gumshoe Gorilla	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	How Many Clones Does It Take to Play a Part?	When momma had the idea of cloning five children from the cells of a well-known actor, she knew exactly what she was doing.  In 2025, the Rockland Brothers are hot property, especially since they make it possible to film five scenes at once.  This is important when the average television show must be instantly available at all levels of sex and violence.  So when Skye Phillips shows up in the offices of private investigators Drew Parker and Jen Gray worried about some 'trouble' that Charles Rockland may have become involved in, it gets their attention.  Soon Jen is on the set posing as an acting intern and Drew is digging up trouble in the background.<br />Drew has another problem.  Daniel, a not even slightly reformed prostitute and good friend has started to use drugs and has gotten into serious trouble.  He has become entangled in a relationship that seems to be leading him into places even weird people shouldn't go.  Drew is more than a little worried, especially when he finds that some of Daniel's new friends have a strong taste for fresh blood.  Between the brothers Rockland and Daniel Drew is getting very little sleep.  Just to make things a bit more complicated Drew finds himself nursing a two-week-old kitten and arguing with the Cherokee Nation.<br />This is a complicated tale that never unravels, full of a rich stew of ideas of what can happen in the future with only a few twists.  Witchcraft works and large gaps divide the various religious segments of the population.  Fundamentalists have their own schools and cry out publicly about the International Satanic Conspiracy.  Homosexuality has gained general acceptance, but the ability to test for the gene involved has had major social repercussions, which add much of the punch to the story line of the 'Gumshoe Gorilla.'  If you like science fiction, fantasy and mystery in a heady concoction with a good dose of tongue-in-cheek social commentary, Keith Hartman is the author for you.<br />Hartman manages his story by telling it from multiple viewpoints.  Unlike 'The Gumshoe, the Witch & the Virtual Corpse,' where no one was in charge, Parker and Gray are clearly the stars.  But expect to see the action from the viewpoints of most of the rest of the caste, both victim and bad guy.  Normally I do not like this style of writing, but Hartman manages to make it work, building great rapport between the reader and the characters.  Occasionally things get confusing, but no worse than it must be like to live in Hartman's novel new world.ory by telling it from multiple viewpoints.  Unlike 'The Gumshoe, the Witch & the Virtual Corpse,' where no one was in charge, Parker and Gray are clearly the stars.  But expect to see the action from the viewpoints of most of the rest of the caste, both victim and bad guy.  Normally I do not like this style of writing, but Hartman manages to make it work, building great rapport between the reader and the characters.  Occasionally things get confusing, but no worse than it must be like to live in Hartman's novel new world.	2002-05-01
1561230:US	53082946	RZS7O1D7L1PHT	0393318958	963786475	Tropical Freeze	Books	5	8	10	N	N	On Thin Ice	In this, James Hall's second novel featuring Thorn, the author expands on the one of the odder heroes of the Florida Keys.  Thorn enjoys being the odd man out, anti-authority, anti-employment and a bit to out spoken for his own good.  Mix this with an instinctive desire to right wrongs when they present themselves to him and you have a natural formula for trouble and good reading.<br />This time Thorn's friend, FBI agent Gaeton Richards involves him in a very strange car deal (where the buyer tries to feed the salesman to the alligators) and then offers Thorn a job as fishing guide for Benny Cousins, a local political up and comer.  Thorn declines (later he has to drop Benny in a hot tub to make his point).  Benny may sound good, but he acts bad, and he is up to something more than a little fishy.  Unfortunately, Gaeton, who was working undercover in the Cousins organization is exposed and suddenly disappears.<br />Thorn is drawn into a relationship with Darcy Richards, Gaeton's sister and the local weatherwoman.  The quest to find Gaeton ends grimly and Darcy and Thorn set about bringing the guilty to justice.  What neither realizes is that Ozzie Hardison, a somewhat mentally deficient Florida Cracker (self-described), who has a compulsive yen for Darcy, is convinced that, if he only could kill everyone she liked, she would surely fall for him.  Ozzie is a loser for sure, but he adds some deadly complications.  Between Benny and Ozzie bad things are bound to happen.<br />James Hall has a knack for pure storytelling.  He paints with firm well-made strokes that make each character and every scene stand out from all the others.  He uses a strong sense of humor to contrast perfectly with the grim and ugly parts.  This type of story, the modern day heroic tale, is a challenge to write well.  In order to make the quest for justice work the author must give away many of the plot's mysteries, hoping to draw us into the plot with suspense and ingenuity.  Once again, Hall has proved himself a master of this genre.s proved himself a master of this genre.	2002-04-30
1562144:US	53082946	RUHJ3LKP0JO7X	1892065053	560340563	The Gumshoe, the Witch, and the Virtual Corpse	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Spell Casting or Politics?	Every once in a while one finds a book that is genuinely surprising.  'The Gumshoe, the Witch, and the Virtual Corpse' is a tale that manages to break every rule and still be not just a great first novel, but a great piece of detective fiction, period.  The setting is Atlanta in 2025, a city divided along religious and sexual preference lines.  Magic works and shamans coexist with high technology.  Fundamentalists have their own political party and television shows are available in several grades of sex and violence.  Fortunately for the reader, people still murder each other.<br />The first victim was already dead - for several months.  The desecrated remains are found in a graveyard, crucified upside-down, with signs of a magical ritual all about.  Detective Megan Strand finds herself in the midst of an ugly crime with the Baptist News Network screaming about a Satanic plot to take over the world.  But the next crimes are murders, one after the other.  And each has the overtones of witchcraft and Satanism.  The large fundamentalist segment of Atlanta seethes with rumor and panic.<br />If Wiccans are suspects, they are also victims, and several members of a coven turn up dead or missing.  One of these is Jen Gray, who is the partner of P.I. Drew Parker.  Parker begins to investigate and finds a trail that leads to the hit religious singer Justin Weir.  It also leads the P.I. into the hands of Ice-in-Summer, a Cherokee Shaman who has some very strange plans for the detective.  Fleeing through this chaos are two teenagers, Benji Danvers and Summer Jacobs, one a Baptist and the other a Wiccan.  Benji has somehow drawn the attention of an unidentified group of agents (Men In Black Suits) and Summer helps to keep him one step ahead of an unknown fate.<br />Lest I forget, the primary cast also includes a mad artist, a senator with dubious ethics, the aforementioned singer, and a news witch.  For Hartman these are not just players on a stage, but active participants.  Each takes turn after turn at first person narrative and it can truly be said that this is a novel with no main character.  For all that I dislike this kind of shifting viewpoint, Keith Hartmann manages to make a great success of it, rarely allowing the possibility of narrative confusion.  Here the technique creates a baroque plot that is in perpetual motion and still manages to create a great deal of connection with the characters.  This tale is a great success, whatever its genre is, and I am anxious to read the sequel.Each takes turn after turn at first person narrative and it can truly be said that this is a novel with no main character.  For all that I dislike this kind of shifting viewpoint, Keith Hartmann manages to make a great success of it, rarely allowing the possibility of narrative confusion.  Here the technique creates a baroque plot that is in perpetual motion and still manages to create a great deal of connection with the characters.  This tale is a great success, whatever its genre is, and I am anxious to read the sequel.	2002-04-29
1562353:US	53082946	R20I8SCUKFPM0M	1889554391	658531812	Intermediate Level Power Builder, Vol. 1	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Much to Think About	For beginning Go players there is a dearth of material on what exactly it takes to increase one's skill.  It is all very well to talk about 'whole board' play, but it takes considerable experience to lift one's eyes above the dust of battle long enough to see that there is action all over the board and that everything is related.  It only slowly dawns on the player that more points may be made by playing elsewhere than can be gained by flogging a local group to death.<br />Even after one knows that this is true, even after one has studied some basic opening strategies, it is often difficult to for a player to understand how he or she can arrive at the middle game already badly behind.  The 'Power Builder' series is intended to remedy this situation by studying overall opening strategy and then following through to other aspects of the complex game of Go.  In each case, Wang Runan goes that little bit deeper that is intended to drive a player past the intermediate skill level.<br />This is the first volume released of three volumes, a translation of the first 13 lessons of a set of 34.  I find it remarkable that they were originally based on a Chinese television program presented by Wang RuNan.  It says something for the overall popularity of Go in the Orient that a course as advanced as this would appear as popular media.  Here in the U.S. it would be hard to find a program on Chess, let alone a less popular game like Go.<br />James Dee has done an excellent job of translating the classroom style of the program into a text with a similar feel.  I find the discussion exceptionally clear, even though the subject matter is not always straightforward.  It is enjoyable, enlightening reading that, applied carefully, will work positive changes in your playing style.  This is a book I expect to read many times, and I hope that the following volumes appear in short order.	2002-04-29
1563544:US	53082946	R2BRX7GQ5S3G1Z	0399146369	109258524	The Last Precinct (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Misery Loves Company, Inc.	The first time I started 'The Last Precinct' was almost 6 months ago.  At that time I was simply not able to get past the first hundred or so pages of Kay Scarpetta 's problems.  It may just be my perception, but even before Benton Wesley's death, Virginia's Chief Medical Officer has had a tendency towards the negative.  Now, with Wesley dead, Scarpetta recovering from a violent attack by Jean-Baptiste Chandonne, and the police firmly in charge of her house and car during the investigation, she is simply devastated.  Neither her colleague Captain Pete Marino, her niece Lucy, nor her friend Dr. Anna Zenner seems able to shake her from a continuous flow of angry self pity.  As a reader one can only be so sympathetic, and I lost patience with the book far earlier than I usually do.<br />On this, my second attempt, I knew what to expect and managed to work past the worst of the tirades.  Eventually the complex plot begins to overtake the emotional overtones and the story takes on more interest.  Scarpetta seems to be assaulted on all sides.  She is wrapped up in the Chandonne case, having blinded him with formalin in her efforts to save herself.  Buford Righter, the Commonwealth's Attorney is investigating Kay's possible complicity in the murder of Diane Bray.  Lucy has been put on administrative leave by the ATF.  And a pair of torture murders baffle everyone with apparent links to the Chandonne case.  From Scarpetta's viewpoint the world seems upside-down, and very little makes sense.<br />To make matters more complicated Jaime Berger, the head of New York City's Sex Crimes Division has asked that Chandonne be tried as a suspect in a crime committed three years earlier.  A political deal has been cut, and Berger is suddenly in Virginia, and in everyone's face as well.  No matter which way she turns, Kay Scarpetta seems to find a layer of half-truths and betrayals.  New themes blend with old to create a heady mixture of facts and red herrings.  Only gradually does the architecture of the crimes evolve into a pattern that makes sense.<br />'The Last Precinct' is an ending, and perhaps, a new beginning.  As such the reader will find that many earlier Cornwell novels are echoed again.  Countless old characters reappear or are remembered as Kay Scarpetta life is led to resolution, and she is forced to ask herself the tough questions she has so far avoided.  As a character Scarpetta deepens considerable, as do those of Lucy and Marino.  This is not an entirely enjoyable book to read.  We must endure a fair amount of Kay Scarpetta's pain to get at the story.  Personally I would have preferred a lighter brush.  But if the tale is a bit heavy-handed it provides as much material for the future of the series as it resolves.  I suspect we have not yet seen the last of Kay Scarpetta.<br />Kate Reading does a superb job of reading the book in the tape version, capturing a rhythm and clarity that are not as immediately apparent in the book itself.  She manages a variety of accents and deliveries comfortably, without going to extremes.  Be warned that the tapes represent over 17 hours of listening.architecture of the crimes evolve into a pattern that makes sense.<br />'The Last Precinct' is an ending, and perhaps, a new beginning.  As such the reader will find that many earlier Cornwell novels are echoed again.  Countless old characters reappear or are remembered as Kay Scarpetta life is led to resolution, and she is forced to ask herself the tough questions she has so far avoided.  As a character Scarpetta deepens considerable, as do those of Lucy and Marino.  This is not an entirely enjoyable book to read.  We must endure a fair amount of Kay Scarpetta's pain to get at the story.  Personally I would have preferred a lighter brush.  But if the tale is a bit heavy-handed it provides as much material for the future of the series as it resolves.  I suspect we have not yet seen the last of Kay Scarpetta.<br />Kate Reading does a superb job of reading the book in the tape version, capturing a rhythm and clarity that are not as immediately apparent in the book itself.  She manages a variety of accents and deliveries comfortably, without going to extremes.  Be warned that the tapes represent over 17 hours of listening.	2002-04-28
1564428:US	53082946	RHK3L6703IRTB	0786709448	300164336	Cutter	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Jack the Reaper	From the beginning Homicide detective Jimmy Parisi and his partner Doc Gibron know that their killer is something different.  The first victim, a runner was attacked, carefully eviscerated, and then mutilated with chilling efficiency.  The crime screamed 'serial killer,' but there was something else there as well, something besides uncontrolled rage, something cold and calculating.<br />Parisi wonders if the careful removal of organs is more than just souvenir taking.  Instead, he suspects that he has a killer who has found the perfect job, organ selling.  Using modern hi-tech as well as good basic investigation, the theory is confirmed and the chase is on.  The trail leads not only through the streets of the city but into the shadowy world of the Chicago mafia.  Gradually the detective builds a picture of the killer and begins to narrow down the list of suspects.<br />Parisi must also come to terms with the involvement of his young wife, Natalie, a rookie police officer, who does not intend to take a back seat while he puts his own life at risk.  Inevitably, the killer turns the tables, and Parisi finds the very things he holds dear put at risk.<br />The book starts out shakily, with a machine gun style of narration and dialogue which does not always make sense in the context of the characters.  Having Parisi's partner be a Ph.D. who reads poetry in the patrol car is an interesting device.  Having him speak a bit like a Chicago hood is somewhat jarring.  Laird has some difficulty giving his characters individual voices (everyone sounds tough and hard-boiled).  I am not sure if he improved as the book went on or whether I simply acclimatized to the peculiarities of his writing style, but every thing eventually came together and I quickly found myself enjoying a book I initially did not like.<br />One thing I do take exception to is long sections of the novel spent inside the killer's head.  Even if these are well written they always give away too much information and steal some of the mystery from the plot.  'Cutter' is no exception.  I understand the purpose of the plot device, but feel this is done better in the third person than the first.  I think that the reader should be discovering the book with the investigator rather than waiting for him to catch up.  Laird manages to avoid the worst crimes of this narrative style, but he still manages to give the reader too much information.<br />Even if this is not a five star novel, it is a very respectable effort by a new writer.  Be warned that the violence is quite graphic and that there is a bit too much gratuitous sex for conservative tastes.  Thomas Laird has managed to create a book both grim and upbeat with a good, driving plot.  Worth looking for.and steal some of the mystery from the plot.  'Cutter' is no exception.  I understand the purpose of the plot device, but feel this is done better in the third person than the first.  I think that the reader should be discovering the book with the investigator rather than waiting for him to catch up.  Laird manages to avoid the worst crimes of this narrative style, but he still manages to give the reader too much information.<br />Even if this is not a five star novel, it is a very respectable effort by a new writer.  Be warned that the violence is quite graphic and that there is a bit too much gratuitous sex for conservative tastes.  Thomas Laird has managed to create a book both grim and upbeat with a good, driving plot.  Worth looking for.	2002-04-27
1569112:US	53082946	R2R1UW0CZ8K6GH	0399148337	131083538	Midnight Runner	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Too Much Typecasting Spoils the Broth	In looking through Jack Higgins extensive list of publications, I discovered that I had read another of his novels years ago - 'The Eagle Has Landed.'  I literally remember nothing about it, but given the elapsed time involved, that is not surprising.  On the other hand, this is not a particularly memorable novel either, and I suspect I will forget it in far fewer years.<br />'Midnight Runner,' the sequel to 'Edge of Danger,' sets out to be a classic spy thriller.  Kate Rashid, half-wealthy Arab and half-English nobility, is the villain of the piece, along with her cousin Rupert Dauncy.  She is determined to have revenge for the killing of her brothers when their evil plans were snuffed out in the previous volume.  Dauncy just likes to do nasty things.  The list of people Kate Rashid wants to get even with is quite large, including the President of the United States and several of his staff, Senator Daniel Quinn, most of British Intelligence, and, especially, Sean Dillon, the British agent who has been her nemesis.<br />Kate, the only remaining Rashid, is not 'just' wealthy, she controls the lion's share of world oil production, heads up a large clan of Bedouin tribesmen, and is funding almost every terrorist organization in the world.  Indeed, her idea of revenge is to kill of a few people personally and then bring down the world around them.  It does not help matters that not only is she wealthy and determined, she is also possessed of a brilliant mind.  Small wonder that Dan Quinn and Sean Dillon are determined to see the end of her.<br />The story has all the right ingredients - menacing villains, roguish heroes, a fast moving complex plot, and the required threat to the free world - but for some reason it fails to sell itself.  I found myself unhappy with the sketchy, archetypal characters that Higgins uses to people this story.  Everyone is exactly the way you would expect him or her to be, from the President right on down to the Arab servant.  No one displays a lot of originality, and as soon as anyone gives into weakness, he or she is ushered from the center stage.  Almost everyone has an Irish last name, with the exception of Hannah Bernstein (who should get a bigger part) and the Rashid's minions.<br />Characters such as these can make the plot seem inevitable and predictable.  As a reader of suspense stories, I like to be surprised a bit more, and to have the ending be in doubt.  I also enjoy exotic locales or intriguing technical details and these too are only sketched in.  Higgin's writing style is smooth, but minimalistic.  I wouldn't call this a 'bad' book, but a mediocre one.  If you are looking for a bare boned spy story to fill an hour or so on a rainy afternoon this may be just your cup of tea.  Do not, however, expect anything memorable.<br />Marc Ruby for the Mystery Readera lot of originality, and as soon as anyone gives into weakness, he or she is ushered from the center stage.  Almost everyone has an Irish last name, with the exception of Hannah Bernstein (who should get a bigger part) and the Rashid's minions.<br />Characters such as these can make the plot seem inevitable and predictable.  As a reader of suspense stories, I like to be surprised a bit more, and to have the ending be in doubt.  I also enjoy exotic locales or intriguing technical details and these too are only sketched in.  Higgin's writing style is smooth, but minimalistic.  I wouldn't call this a 'bad' book, but a mediocre one.  If you are looking for a bare boned spy story to fill an hour or so on a rainy afternoon this may be just your cup of tea.  Do not, however, expect anything memorable.<br />Marc Ruby for the Mystery Reader	2002-04-23
1571312:US	53082946	R1IQKRVXSWOB6K	0743427327	299142358	Sweet Sixteen (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Not Just Another Pretty Face	In Sunnydale demons are no surprise to Buffy.  Not even when a bunch of them show up in line for cat food at the local Quick Stop.  Buffy, as usual, to the rescue.  Except that this time an unassuming looking middle school student loses her cool and unexpectedly rips a demon to shreds.  But before Buffy can say \\"hello\\" the girl is gone and the mystery gets filed away.  For our regular girl wonder realizes that someone has elected her target in the demonic equivalent of 'Survivor.'  This time the show seems to be called 'Get That Slayer.\\"<br />The unexpected demon stomper is Arianna DuPrey, a fellow student at Dawn's school.  Arianna, the child of a hypercritical mother, has spent most of her life avoiding attention.  Now she finds herself in the possession of the kind of powers that she has previously only fantasized about and she is terrified.  While she is trying to cope with this she attracts the attention, and then the friendship of Dawn, who has had her own struggles with being different.  When Buffy discovers that Dawn's new friend is also the mystery girl from the Quick Stop there is a bit of a scramble before Arianna begins to accept that Buffy, Dawn, and the rest of the Scooby gang actually want to help her discover that has happened to her.  For Arianna, who has always been a loner, this is a major, and sometimes difficult, adjustment.<br />But Arianna's coming into her powers has awakened one more player.  Sensing an opportunity for freedom and power another Aurek Kiritan arouses himself to seek re-entry into the human plane.  Arianna's father, her mother's demon lover, returns to the human plane, intent on having his half-human young daughter assume the role of the Reaver, a creature of legend, intent on bearing destruction wherever she goes.  For this he will give her three gifts and require her willing consent.  Only one thing stands in his way - Buffy and her band of friends, who keep reminding Arianna of her human half.  Into this relationship he must drive a wedge or face the destruction of his own dreams.<br />The conflict in this book between Arianna's need to be special and Buffy's own need to be human sets up a relationship that will bring change to both.  And the normally petulant and slightly impossible Dawn reveals her own in inner strength in the mirror of care and acceptance she holds up to both her sister and her friend.  Arianna's confusion about whether her father is hero or horror, her inability to resolve her feelings for Dawn and Buffy, and her indecision about her own nature make this a particularly poignant book.  As is often the case, Buffy books such as this one from Scott Ciencin have a lot to say about more important things than the slaying of vampires.  This one does that particularly well, using fine writing and a memorable plot.  Great reading.t drive a wedge or face the destruction of his own dreams.<br />The conflict in this book between Arianna's need to be special and Buffy's own need to be human sets up a relationship that will bring change to both.  And the normally petulant and slightly impossible Dawn reveals her own in inner strength in the mirror of care and acceptance she holds up to both her sister and her friend.  Arianna's confusion about whether her father is hero or horror, her inability to resolve her feelings for Dawn and Buffy, and her indecision about her own nature make this a particularly poignant book.  As is often the case, Buffy books such as this one from Scott Ciencin have a lot to say about more important things than the slaying of vampires.  This one does that particularly well, using fine writing and a memorable plot.  Great reading.	2002-04-22
1578538:US	53082946	R2Y0PVG1GGMLSL	1569715521	853662754	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 8: Past Lives	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A Demon Under Every Stone	Backk in the days when comics were 25 cents I used to read a lot of them.  Now that they come out for over 10 dollars, they are actually a rare treat.  Of course, the production qualities are way better than what I used to read.  When I read the description of 'Past Lives' and discovered it was an Angel/Buffy special, I decided it was one I had to get, and I am please to say that I was not disappointed.<br />Angel finds himself under attack from not one, two, or even a small group of demons, but a continuous stream of the very meanest in Los Angeles.  Every single one of them mad at him because an unknown woman was cutting a swath through the underworld claming that she worked for Angel.  This is serious bad news.  In no time at all Cordelia and Wesley are among the wounded and Angel looks like the before picture in a plastic surgeon's office.  The scent of badness reaches all the way to Sunnydale, and soon Buffy, Giles, and the entire Scooby Gang are on their way to help.<br />The team quickly discovers that the freelance lady demon killer is actually an agent of the Watchers, who has convinced them to arm her with whatever she wants from their armory of magic weapons.  Smarting from the embarrassment of having two Slayers who are ignoring them, they seized the chance to restore their waning reputation.  Unfortunately they failed to look deeply enough into the motivations of the beautiful Alexa Landry and they wind up unleashing a nightmare.  She is hell bent on destroying Angel and anyone who is his friend.  Alexa has a past with both Giles and Wesley, but with Angel her hatred extends back centuries.  Back to the time that Angel, as Angelus, destroyed first the mind and than the life of Sir Andrew Landry.<br />As you can tell, this is going to be one titanic struggle.  Thanks to the fact that comic books have an unlimited special effects budget, the visuals are out standing. Great fight scenes and moody returns to Angel's past are the work of veteran pencillers Christian Zanier and Cliff Richards.  The story line is another barn burner from the pens of Chris Golden and Tom Sniegoski, who also need no introduction.  Dialog is as good as it can get in this kind of writing and even Anya manages to get some great lines.  If you've wondering which one of the Buffy and company graphic novels to get, this is the one.hristian Zanier and Cliff Richards.  The story line is another barn burner from the pens of Chris Golden and Tom Sniegoski, who also need no introduction.  Dialog is as good as it can get in this kind of writing and even Anya manages to get some great lines.  If you've wondering which one of the Buffy and company graphic novels to get, this is the one.	2002-04-15
1579792:US	53082946	R36L39MU5CSS0U	0671023217	971196475	The Tower	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Tower or Tomb	The Tower<br />It is inevitable that, as the serial killer genre proliferates, certain plot devices begin to become commonplace.  When this happens it puts increased pressure on an author to bring off a story where, for the most part, the reader can guess seventy percent of the plot after the first 20 pages.  'The Tower' is a 'killer breaks out of jail and seeks revenge' story, and never really deviates from that basic format.  The tower of the story is a very maximum security prison where only the very worst of criminals are sent.  Located off the San Francisco coast, most of its height is actually under water, access being carefully controlled.  Its guests are few, less than a dozen, plus a small number of guards.<br />New to this prison is Allander Atlasia, a severe psychotic lacking any sympathetic traits (unless you want to count killing his lawyer).  Unsurprisingly, within a fortnight of being put into his cell, Atlasia manages to do the impossible and breaks back out.  Making sure to kill almost everyone in the prison as he heads for freedom.  Thus, right off the bat, you will realize that Allander is not the one at a time type of killer.  He likes family units and groups.  Allander has a specific purpose in mind on this killing spree and the FBI is desperate to get to him before he descends on humanity like Jack the Ripper.<br />Jade Marlowe is a tracker or 'bounty hunter' who has proven himself relentless, with a kill rate that rivals most serial killers.  As an ex-FBI profiler Marlowe has developed that rare skill, getting into the head of stoned murderer.  However, in Marlowe's case the problem is getting himself back out again.  His compulsive behavior threatens to overwhelm his life, and civilians do only slightly better than criminals around Jade.  For the most part he is best left alone, although he has a ruinous effect on public relations.  Trying to rein in Marlowe's leash is Special Agent Jennifer Travers job, and one she doesn't like at all.<br />The story is what one would expect from this kind of cast - explosively violent.  Allander starts his theme killings with Marlowe right behind.  The tracker seems unable to outmaneuver the killer and the body count mounts with each gruesome slaughter.  There's plenty of action, the reader will become increasingly frustrated with Jade's near misses, and....  Well, I'll leave what surprises and twists Hurwitz does come up with as surprises for the reader.<br />The biggest disappointment is Hurwitz's characters, who are simply never quite believable.  Atlasia is cast as the brilliant psychotic - an intellectual ice cube.  Perhaps that is what he is billed as, but the reality is that he is far more lucky than smart.  He is good at escapes, but he specializes in the kind of suicidal risk taking which is more characteristic of a serial killer at the end of his road rather than one who is completely in control.  And Marlowe, the super tracker, has a knack for setting up traps that catch the wrong victims.  Even when the reader has a complete picture of the motivations driving the two men, neither becomes any more sympathetic or believable.<br />I prefer Hurwitz's other effort, 'Minutes to Burn,' which has a more ingenious plot.  In the final analysis reading a Hurwitz book is a lot like watching the movie that it no doubt wants to be.  There is a lot of action and gore, but the characters are shadows of reality.  Much more like superheroes than real people.  What saves the book is that Hurwitz actually is a capable writer.  He has a knack for portraying action and keeping the reader's interest up through the entire novel.  And if you like a lot of action you are probably going to like this book.  With a little more attention to character development it would have been a remarkable effort.  I will be watching for Hurwitz's next.e story is what one would expect from this kind of cast - explosively violent.  Allander starts his theme killings with Marlowe right behind.  The tracker seems unable to outmaneuver the killer and the body count mounts with each gruesome slaughter.  There's plenty of action, the reader will become increasingly frustrated with Jade's near misses, and....  Well, I'll leave what surprises and twists Hurwitz does come up with as surprises for the reader.<br />The biggest disappointment is Hurwitz's characters, who are simply never quite believable.  Atlasia is cast as the brilliant psychotic - an intellectual ice cube.  Perhaps that is what he is billed as, but the reality is that he is far more lucky than smart.  He is good at escapes, but he specializes in the kind of suicidal risk taking which is more characteristic of a serial killer at the end of his road rather than one who is completely in control.  And Marlowe, the super tracker, has a knack for setting up traps that catch the wrong victims.  Even when the reader has a complete picture of the motivations driving the two men, neither becomes any more sympathetic or believable.<br />I prefer Hurwitz's other effort, 'Minutes to Burn,' which has a more ingenious plot.  In the final analysis reading a Hurwitz book is a lot like watching the movie that it no doubt wants to be.  There is a lot of action and gore, but the characters are shadows of reality.  Much more like superheroes than real people.  What saves the book is that Hurwitz actually is a capable writer.  He has a knack for portraying action and keeping the reader's interest up through the entire novel.  And if you like a lot of action you are probably going to like this book.  With a little more attention to character development it would have been a remarkable effort.  I will be watching for Hurwitz's next.	2002-04-14
1580327:US	53082946	R23D7DR8CRM1PC	1585670278	333770126	Freddy and Mr. Camphor (Freddy the Pig)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Freddy Takes Care	It is hard to imagine it happening to Freddy the Pig, but gradually his busy life as pig, poet, banker, detective, and newspaperman was wearing him out.  Even his good friend Jinx the Cat could see that Freddy needed a change.  But Freddy didn't see how he could leave all his responsibilities.  Finally, his salvation came in the form of a help wanted advertisement for a caretaker at the estate of the wealthy Mr. Jimson Camphor.<br />The job seemed perfect.  Freddy got to live on a houseboat while he guarded the grounds and mowed the expansive lawn.  If it hadn't been for a chance meeting with Waldo and Elmo, a pair of dejected hoptoads, Freddy would have thought he was in heaven.  But the toads reveal that all is not well.  Simon the Rat and his clan have moved into the Camphor attic and, in a fit of random destructiveness, have chewed away the faces on the portraits that are stored there.<br />Nor is that the worst of it.  Mrs. Winch, the housekeeper, turned out to be the estranged wife of Zebedee Winch and his son Horace, whom the reader may remember from Freddy's trip to Florida, where he gave the animals no end of problems.  This time is no different.  Freddy is locked up, a plot is hatched against him and Mr. Camphor returns to find Freddy accused of vandalism and theft.  A dejected Freddy returns to the Bean Farm, determined to undo the damage.<br />Of course, things are not perfect on the farm either Webb the Spider is on a campaign to convince the insects that they should abstain from eating the Victory Gardens that are providing extra food for the war effort.  He is opposed by Zero, the anarchist horsefly, and appeals to Freddy for help.  Certainly, a pig's work is never done.<br />Somehow, of course, all is made right, but it takes all of Freddy's ingenuity, the cooperation of the farm animals, and even an array of militant fleas to bring all the culprits to justice.  In the world of the Bean Farm, teamwork, friendship, and an honest determination to do the right thing are the tools that make the difference.  As always, Brooks' lessons are painless fun.  He displays a touch for gentle yet satirical caricature that cannot help but please both his younger audience and us doddering, older readers who remember the days before noir fiction and, like Freddy, occasionally need to take a breakhe right thing are the tools that make the difference.  As always, Brooks' lessons are painless fun.  He displays a touch for gentle yet satirical caricature that cannot help but please both his younger audience and us doddering, older readers who remember the days before noir fiction and, like Freddy, occasionally need to take a break	2002-04-14
1586650:US	53082946	R13ORF2O6524I9	0743427505	266245451	Image (ANGEL)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Painting Yourself Out of a Corner	What seems to make a successful Angel story is complicated plotting with a solid core cast of characters.  Skilled writers like Mel Odom can deliver on this promise, but sometimes the reviewer finds himself at a loss for words while trying to give the reader a bite sized glance into the workings of one of these novels.  'Image' is a case in point, as you shall shortly see.<br />The tale opens on a chance meeting between Faroe Burke, a young artist and Gunn, who has an appointment for a pickup sparring match in the building where Faroe has her studio.  No, sparks don't fly, but only a little while later Faroe finds herself in a pitched battle with demons in her workroom.<br />[Camera shifts to]<br />Angel sits in a bar keeping an eye on Eddie Ashford, a hot new actor whose wild habits have his studio worrying about him.  Wesley, anxious to expand Angel Investigations to the level of actually making a profit has agreed to watch the actor.  Angel suddenly discovers that Eddie's latest bimbo isn't a bimbo, but a lady Garlock demon intent on using Eddie as nesting material.<br />[Camera shifts to]<br />Cordelia and Wesley are working on another case for Eddie's studio, trying to put an end to some nasty blackmail originating from a publisher called 'Corner of the Eye.'  Our intrepid duo find that this suspicious publishing house is front for - you guessed - yet another nasty demon.  With every member of the team neck deep in serious trouble, now is the time for the Powers That Be to call on their secret weapon.<br />Cordelia suddenly has a vision.  Actually, Cordelia has two visions.  The first is about the jam that Faroe is caught in, and the second is of an unknown child being menaced by an unknown demon in an unknown location.  And the story has hardly begun to sizzle.  Before this tale is over the Angel team will have to fight 5 flavors of demon, deal with a whole series of blasts from the past, and, naturally, save the world.  And throw ain a bit of good old fashioned natural magic to glue everything together.  This is not the kind of story you put down for a few days and expect to pick up where you left off.  To tell the truth, though, I don't know why you would want to put it down.<br />Mel Odom really is a good writer, with considerable experience.  In 'Image' he is just plain showing off.  Not only is the complex plot worked for everything it's work, the characters are done perfectly.  The story is also intended to reveal extra depths to the main characters and that's exactly what it does.  Special appearances by the likes of Lorne the Host plus more of Angel's past told in flashbacks add to the story's sparkle.  If you are any kind of Angel fan at all you will find much to enjoy here.ioned natural magic to glue everything together.  This is not the kind of story you put down for a few days and expect to pick up where you left off.  To tell the truth, though, I don't know why you would want to put it down.<br />Mel Odom really is a good writer, with considerable experience.  In 'Image' he is just plain showing off.  Not only is the complex plot worked for everything it's work, the characters are done perfectly.  The story is also intended to reveal extra depths to the main characters and that's exactly what it does.  Special appearances by the likes of Lorne the Host plus more of Angel's past told in flashbacks add to the story's sparkle.  If you are any kind of Angel fan at all you will find much to enjoy here.	2002-04-09
1589852:US	53082946	R3GKIWL40IS4P3	1889554251	10671628	Fuseki Small Encyclopedia (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Separating the Firmaments	When a new player first comes to the Go board what fascinates it the rich complexity of the tactical battles.  Almost anything seems possible as players use tricks and carefully laid traps to resolve questions of life and death.  Although Chess and Go will always be very different games, hand-to-hand fighting is where they are closest.  For many players this will remain the arena they prefer to play in, and there is no question that a superb Go player must be a formidable tactician.<br />The beginnings of strategy in Go arise in the joseki; the opening pattern of play in the corners of the board where each player strives to get at least their fair share of the available territory and influence.  I have seen an estimate somewhere that there are some 20,000 such patterns and the number continues to grow as players experiment.  Practically speaking, a player who can play in a hundred or so would be well on the way to mastering the game.<br />Fuseki is about how the four corners (and the rest of the board as well) relate to each other.  One can think of this as the first 5 to 10 moves.  During this time the fuseki chosen will be the major determining factor in which joseki are played and how the other big points on the board are taken.  Fuseki is how a player announces the overall approach he or she will take in the conflicts between territory and influence.<br />One learns Go in this same order, up the pyramid from tactics to the finer points of strategy.  To a degree, this is the only way.  Until you can keep a group alive or mount a successful attack, no amount of opening game savvy will make you a winner.  Traditionally, students are discouraged from much study of joseki and fuseki until they are nearing the shodan rank.  Personally, I think this is too late.  Not understanding something of the elements of opening strategy severely limits what one can do in the game.  So while deep study may not always be beneficial, a good basic grasp reaps many rewards.<br />This book, part of a series from the Nihon Ki-in (the Japanese Go Association) is one of the best books on fuseki and how strategy drives the overall game.  Thirteen chapters organize the 29 most important opening patterns, spending a good amount of time showing how various joseki can be used to take best advantage of the positions.  The language is simple and crystal clear, which is a great achievement in a subject area most players consider esoteric.<br />I'm not going to pretend that this material is exciting reading, but this presentation is quite painless, and well suited for occasional reading or research.  As such it's value will survive long past the best puzzle book.  The book is well organized for these purposes and includes a good glossary as well as subject, player and game indexes.  All of this makes the book an excellent value.book, part of a series from the Nihon Ki-in (the Japanese Go Association) is one of the best books on fuseki and how strategy drives the overall game.  Thirteen chapters organize the 29 most important opening patterns, spending a good amount of time showing how various joseki can be used to take best advantage of the positions.  The language is simple and crystal clear, which is a great achievement in a subject area most players consider esoteric.  <br />I'm not going to pretend that this material is exciting reading, but this presentation is quite painless, and well suited for occasional reading or research.  As such it's value will survive long past the best puzzle book.  The book is well organized for these purposes and includes a good glossary as well as subject, player and game indexes.  All of this makes the book an excellent value.	2002-04-07
1597790:US	53082946	R28N6RPCNEN937	0743427483	192957517	Haunted (ANGEL)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For Rent: Large Home with Demons	Today is Cordelia's main chance at a Hollywood career.  The lucky lady has been accepted as a contestant on a new version of 'Survivor.'  The plan; spend 5 days in a 'haunted house' along with eight other contestants.  The last survivor gets $100,000 and lots of good media exposure.  Laughing Pig Productions is hoping it has a wild hit on its hands.  In any case, the special effects are spectacular, bloody writing oozing from the walls, panthers in the bedrooms, and nighttime visitations.  If they were special effects, that is.<br />Cordelia has hardly arrived on set when she has a vision.  Something horrible is happening to Kirsten St. Clair, who Cordelia met when trying out for the show.  Desperate, Cordelia manages to get a message out to Angel, Wesley, and Gunn.  They find Kirsten has definitely disappeared without a trace.  When Angel invades Laughing Pig to get more information he discovers that Kirsten is not the only actress that has disappeared from their stable.  His only other clue is the sighting of a strange limousine.<br />On top of everything else, Gunn is investigating a murder on his own turf.  A woman's body turns up stripped of all identifying marks - like her fingerprints and face.  The first (and only clue) he turns up is, you guessed it, further appearances of the ghostly limousine.  Somehow the corpse, Kirsten, Cordelia, Laughing Pig, and the limousine are all tied together, and several lives depend on it.  When our heroes tangle with several new flavors of demon they find a distinct odor of lawyer - the Wolfram and Hart kind.<br />What Jeff Mariotte has created here is a classic and complex Angel tale which displays all of the four main characters at their best.  Mariotte is a veteran Angel writer who can be counted on to deliver the right proportions of action and character.  'Haunted' is set post-Darla, and is a pleasant change from previous books in this series.  Gunn and Wesley are well fleshed in, and Cordelia is great in a lead role.  While the plot isn't totally original, it has a lot of unique twists and turns that spell plenty of excitement for Angel's fans.  Get ready for some serious exorcism.hile the plot isn't totally original, it has a lot of unique twists and turns that spell plenty of excitement for Angel's fans.  Get ready for some serious exorcism.	2002-04-01
1600086:US	53082946	R2YH0WEDPAOV6O	4871870065	689993351	Strategic Concepts of Go	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Required Reading - Advanced	I was a beginner the first time I read this book and it literally went right over my head.  In fact, I actually couldn't finish it because I lacked sufficient knowledge and experience for it to make practical sense to me.  This is really one of the mysteries of Go - how can a game with so simple a set of rules have so many levels of skill and understanding.<br />Well, it's been quite a few games and books since then, so it's time to open 'Strategic Concepts of Go' once more.  I would like to brag, and say it was now a breeze to work through, but that is hardly the truth.  This time I did finish the book, though, and everything actually made sense.  On several occasions I had sudden realizations about defects in my play and ways to improve.  I could even cope with many of the puzzles.  But it is absolutely not easy reading.  Not because it's poorly written, Nagahara does his best to present some fairly complex topics, but because there is too much to think about for just one or two passes through the material covered.  Expect to reread this book regularly as you make your way to the Meijin title.<br />Nagahara focuses on eight different strategic contents - miai (relationship between two points), aji (potential threat), kikashi (forcing moves), thickness, korigatachi (frozen shape), sabaki (development), furikawari (exchange of territory), and yosu-maru (probing techniques).  The reader will forgive me if the translations are not much more explanatory than the Japanese terms - some of these concepts elude brief explanations.  Even for readers that are familiar with the terms, this will probably be the first time you are exposed to these techniques as ways of determining and controlling the progress of the game across the entire board.<br />The second half of the book is consumed in the presentation and explanation of some 72 problems, few of which are straightforward.  Explanations are very careful, however, covering many alternatives.  These are quite different from the 'how does white save his two stones' kind of problems, and will quickly get you thinking about the entire board, rather than just simple action.  I found the second reading left me with a better sense of how the opening game segues into the middle game and as well as a feel for the timing of certain moves.<br />Who should read this book?  Someone with a couple of hundred games under their belt who is in the 1 to 10 ki ranking range should be able to understand the material.  I think the book would remain valuable to any serious player throughout their playing career.  I certainly expect to reread it several more times.the 'how does white save his two stones' kind of problems, and will quickly get you thinking about the entire board, rather than just simple action.  I found the second reading left me with a better sense of how the opening game segues into the middle game and as well as a feel for the timing of certain moves.<br />Who should read this book?  Someone with a couple of hundred games under their belt who is in the 1 to 10 ki ranking range should be able to understand the material.  I think the book would remain valuable to any serious player throughout their playing career.  I certainly expect to reread it several more times.	2002-03-30
1601271:US	53082946	R3CR2E5PAN5RX	1585860352	832408663	The Face in the Frost	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Compulsory and Compulsive Reading	My initial reading of this book was when it first came out in paperback in 1978.  This isn't by way of bragging, but simply to point out that it impressed me so much that I still have that very copy of the book, despite many relocations and resizings of my own library.  For its time it was so unlike any other fantasy book that it made an immediate impression and has continued to do so to this very day.<br />Written with a deceiving simplicity that, no doubt, owes its origins to Bellairs' many successes as a writer of horror fiction for young adults, 'The Face in the Frost' is the tale of two wizards who must prevent the completion of a spell so awful it would bring the ruin of their world.  When Prospero (not the one on the island) finds his comfy and peculiar home under siege by baleful magick he is alarmed.  The appearance of his old friend and co-wizard Roger Bacon (the very one) only confirms that ominous portents are about.  Faced with giant moths and a force of giant menacing shadows they make their escape, bent on finding the source of the problem.<br />In short order they realize that someone is in the process of activating a spell inscribed in a legendary tome.  They must face illusion, traps, and even death trying to discover the identity of the book's new owner.  And then, once the identity is known they must wrest the book from its keeper's grasp and bring it to destruction.  In a trick unknown since Aristotle's Cave, Bellairs manages to fit this detailed and wide ranging quest into a novel of less than two hundred pages.  For this accomplishment, if no other, Bellairs deserves a great deal of appreciation.<br />Bellairs characters are gem-like, as is the world in which they move.  The tone of the narrative is quite humorous, with Prospero and Bacon getting much of the credit for keeping up a banter full of strange twists that seems to wander at will across time and place without any disastrous side effects.  The narrative, in contrast, is quite chilling.  Bellairs shows a fine ability to create suspense and horror without having enormous quantities of gore splattered over the pages.  On several occasions I found myself unexpectedly spooked by what on the surface was comparative mild-mannered prose.<br />For all the time I've had this book I have always been surprised that I haven't come across more of Bellairs' work.  It is only recently, thanks to the Internet, that I discovered that Bellairs was pre-eminently known as a writer of youthful fiction, and that he died prematurely.  In retrospect, it is probably only a fortunate accident that 'The Face in the Frost' crossed over into adult fiction.  It certainly could be read with great enjoyment by anyone who can cope with Bellairs clear but literate writing style.  Lest I forget, the story is accompanied by many wonderful illustrations from the pen of Marilyn Fitschen, which the reader will find as pleasant as the story..  Bellairs shows a fine ability to create suspense and horror without having enormous quantities of gore splattered over the pages.  On several occasions I found myself unexpectedly spooked by what on the surface was comparative mild-mannered prose.<br />For all the time I've had this book I have always been surprised that I haven't come across more of Bellairs' work.  It is only recently, thanks to the Internet, that I discovered that Bellairs was pre-eminently known as a writer of youthful fiction, and that he died prematurely.  In retrospect, it is probably only a fortunate accident that 'The Face in the Frost' crossed over into adult fiction.  It certainly could be read with great enjoyment by anyone who can cope with Bellairs clear but literate writing style.  Lest I forget, the story is accompanied by many wonderful illustrations from the pen of Marilyn Fitschen, which the reader will find as pleasant as the story.	2002-03-29
1603991:US	53082946	R489YM4CPHJS8	0743400364	608150022	Tempted Champions (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	When Is A Slayer Not Quite a Slayer?	One of the pleasures of the latest efforts in the Buffy novel series is that she has been allowed to grow up a bit and start to deal with the range of issues that confronted her before the fifth season's spectacular ending.  This is a different Buffy, one who has had to make some tough choices and live with them.  No longer so lighthearted and flip she is finding that strength and reflexes are not enough by themselves to meet her responsibilities.  She must look inside to find the sources of her own wisdom.  As such I find her developing into an even more interesting character then she has been in the past.<br />The occasion for conflict is the appearance of a new vampire in Sunnydale.  Celina, who apparently dislikes both humans and vampires, is intent cutting a swath through the ranks of both.  But her real target is obvious from the start, Celina wants to take a slayer as a trophy, and may very well have the stuff to do it.  After nearly doing away with Xander and Anya trying to track down Buffy, Celina tries for a less subtle approach and takes on Buffy directly.  This ends in a near disaster - for Buffy, and the chase is on.  But who exactly is the hunter and who is the prey?<br />Buffy, Giles, Willow, and even Spike start to search for the key to Celina.  Even Angel becomes involved when he recognizes Celina as the vampire that very nearly killed him before he came to Sunnydale.  Buffy, who still loves him, only reluctantly accepts both his warnings and his offer of help.  Spike too, realizes he has met Celina before and his new found loyalty to Buffy will be sorely tested before the book is over.  When the truth about Celina is finally revealed, Buffy faces the fact that the price of this confrontation may be far worse than death.<br />One of the surprises of this story is an extended focus on Anya, who finds that she must decide again whether it is better to be human or a demon, and Xander who must face the reality of his own feelings for his quirky lover.  Anya, who up until now has been a bit of a cipher with a unique ability to say the wrong thing, really does come alive in the dilemma between love and immortality.  'Tempted Champions' tests her relationship just as it adds new dimension to the relationship between Buffy and Angel.  Nor is Dawn left out of the picture.  Everyone pitches in to help in a struggle which, in the end, must be Buffy's alone.<br />Yvonne Navarro has already demonstrated strong writing skills in 'Paleo' and the two volume 'Willow Files.'  'Tempted Champions' continues to demonstrate her power in the more serious side of Buffy fiction.  Dialogue, plot, and characters flow naturally in this new effort.  Navarro is beginning to look beyond media novels, and the wise reader will keep an eye on her.Anya, who up until now has been a bit of a cipher with a unique ability to say the wrong thing, really does come alive in the dilemma between love and immortality.  'Tempted Champions' tests her relationship just as it adds new dimension to the relationship between Buffy and Angel.  Nor is Dawn left out of the picture.  Everyone pitches in to help in a struggle which, in the end, must be Buffy's alone.<br />Yvonne Navarro has already demonstrated strong writing skills in 'Paleo' and the two volume 'Willow Files.'  'Tempted Champions' continues to demonstrate her power in the more serious side of Buffy fiction.  Dialogue, plot, and characters flow naturally in this new effort.  Navarro is beginning to look beyond media novels, and the wise reader will keep an eye on her.	2002-03-27
1604970:US	53082946	R2IHY428SFEPPI	0812524853	818811794	Burning Water (Diana Tregarde Investigation)	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Deep in the Hearts of Texas	I took this book and it's sequel, 'Children of the Night,' down off my shelves while doing some research and decided it would be interesting to reread them.  There is a third book, 'Jinx High.' in the Diana Tregarde series, but I have never read it.  While these books are very representative of Mercedes Lackey's early, and not quite polished, writing style, the are interesting, and the heroine is a strong independent woman in a time where this was still a bit exceptional.  Since these were originally billed as young adult reading material, their influence is more significant than one might initially guess.<br />The plot turns around the Aztec theme of the return of a god, in this case Tezcatlipoca, the god of war, and a very unpleasant character.  He has possessed a local resident and plans to keep killing until his power has returned.  Mark Valdez, a Fort Worth detective is involved in a the murder investigation where one gruesome killing follows another.  Mark is a sensitive who used to work with Diana when they were in college, and can feel that there is more to the killings than just a serial killer.  He manages to convince his boss to bring in Diana as a consultant.<br />Diana is a Wiccan practitioner who has taken to heart the role of warrior/protector.  A powerful witch, she is dedicated to exposing the false and undoing the evil.  An intelligent and beautiful woman, she makes her living writing romances (when there are no wrongs to be righted).  In this case, there is plenty of wrong, victims are drowned, skinned and de-hearted with depressing regularity, and Diana and Mike are unable to trace the crimes to a probable perpetrator.  Diana is completely stymied for most of the book, unable to even identify the tradition behind the murderous sacrifices.<br />If Diana is stuck, we are not.  Lackey introduces us to the evildoers quite early, and keeps us well apprised of the workings of Diana's enemies.  Tezcatlipoca dreams of vengeance against those that destroyed the culture of his people, and fully intends to work the end the world as we know it.  Far from being a hare-brained scheme he and his cohorts are well on the way to re-establishing the god's dominion, and Mike and Diana will need considerable help before they can mount an effective defense.<br />One of the interesting side themes of this novel is that Diana and Mike are not destined to become lovers.  Instead, each has their own emotional life and problems.  This helps to keep the plot focused, and actually gives Lackey a chance to develop her leads as independent characters.  Unfortunately, while the plot work and characters are well done, the dialogue is flawed.  People just don't seem to talk to each other in a normal fashion.  A little too much bluster and stereotypical communication for my taste.  And a cardboard-like stiffness at times when an open and relaxed style would accomplish more.  Despite this weakness, 'Burning Mirror' is a good read with some interesting twists and turns.  I don't think anyone will be disappointed.ed the culture of his people, and fully intends to work the end the world as we know it.  Far from being a hare-brained scheme he and his cohorts are well on the way to re-establishing the god's dominion, and Mike and Diana will need considerable help before they can mount an effective defense.<br />One of the interesting side themes of this novel is that Diana and Mike are not destined to become lovers.  Instead, each has their own emotional life and problems.  This helps to keep the plot focused, and actually gives Lackey a chance to develop her leads as independent characters.  Unfortunately, while the plot work and characters are well done, the dialogue is flawed.  People just don't seem to talk to each other in a normal fashion.  A little too much bluster and stereotypical communication for my taste.  And a cardboard-like stiffness at times when an open and relaxed style would accomplish more.  Despite this weakness, 'Burning Mirror' is a good read with some interesting twists and turns.  I don't think anyone will be disappointed.	2002-03-26
1607515:US	53082946	R32MT8EIMBJMJE	1590210018	621693601	The Supernatural in Modern English Fiction	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Cook's Tour of English Fantasy	This is the latest in Lethe Press's series of reissues of works on the occult.  'The Supernatural In Modern English Fiction' was written in 1917 by Dorothy Scarborough.  Given that the series has been uneven so far I did not have high expectations for this volume, and have only now discovered that it is a veritable treasure trove of books and literary history.  It covers the period from Horace Walpole's 'Castle of Otranto' and other Gothic romances straight through to the author's own present times in the early 20th Century.<br />This makes for a literal cast of thousands.  I was quite surprised to discover that horror and fantasy were a major part of the world's literary output from the very beginnings of popular literature.  From Walpole, Maturin, and Shelley right through to Doyle, Machen, and Blackwood it was indeed a crowded stage.  And Scarborough manages to present most of these efforts in a readable and well-organized fashion.  Initially we are given a historical approach, but then the themes are taken up separately.  Ghost stories, the demonic, the wandering Jew, rebirth, the afterlife, folk tales, and even 'scientific' monsters each get their turn in the sun.<br />As I've indicated Scarborough writes without any of the boring academic tone which often haunts this kind of material.  This makes this volume an entertaining way to hunt down new reading material as well as a help in steering one's way through book stall accretions with a steady hand.  Keep a pencil and a piece of paper handy while reading this book, you are bound to find things of interest.<br />My only regret is the lack of a bibliography.  Scarborough is quite up front about this.  In addition to the 3,000 or so titles that she drew upon for the book, there was an even larger additional number that she felt should be provided to the reader/researcher.  There simply was no room at the inn.  Unfortunately, to our loss, the bibliography promised as a second volume never materialized.  There is, however, a good index, which will have to serve in it's stead.is, however, a good index, which will have to serve in it's stead.	2002-03-24
1608364:US	53082946	R304TQY5VZHXUL	078670943X	731165523	Little Girl Blue: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	3	3	N	N	In Pursuit of the Evidence	As Andrew Vachss has proven on several occasions, stories which turn on the sexual abuse and enslavement of children are the true horror stories of the mystery genre.  We have a primal reaction to the content which pulls us out of our comfortable lives and imbues the details of the novel with an intensity which many readers find deeply disturbing and uncomfortable.  The reason is obvious.  Nothing is as defenseless as a child, and nothing is more tragic than the inevitable ruination of a child's spirit.<br />David Cray opens 'Little Girl Blue' with a grim scene.  Lt. Julia Brennan comes to a crime site where the victim is a 9 year old girl, frozen to death in Central Park.  The evidence shows that the girl had been fleeing from something so terrible that she was willing to run exposed through the city and into the park.  Without even raising a hand in violence the world of the pedophile has executed another victim.  Brennan becomes determined to track down those responsible, and to give Little Girl Blue back her real name.<br />What follows is a story of justice and revenge.  Brennan and her partner, Peter Foley find themselves one step behind someone who is determined to kill all the perpetrators of this crime and destroy the evidence.  Foley, whose own daughter was kidnapped, resulting in his wife's suicide, is driven to hunt the perverse.  But for Julia, his personal tragedy makes him a potential suspect.  Even while working closely with her, he pursues his own hunt, heedless of the potential danger.<br />Such stories, built on the dark core of human evil are the true noir stories.  Vachss's tales reveal a world where hope is futile and salvation is only accidental.  David Cray builds a vision no less grim, but definitely less pessimistic.  He dangles the possibility that at least some of the characters he lovingly portrays will be enlarged, not diminished by the tragedy.  And that somehow, in the midst of a police procedural, there can be glints of healing.<br />'Little Girl Blue' provides a clinical distance which is both its most fatal flaw and the key to its success.  After the girl herself is found, the next victims become the adults that people an underworld, rather than the children themselves.  This deflection reduces stress and keeps the book accessible to the reader.  On the other hand it makes the dark secret of its center a little less horrible than it should be.  Child abuse is a prevalent problem which rarely receives the attention it should because it is too strong an issue to confront directly.  'Little Girl Blue' is a fascinating start, but there are miles yet to go.>'Little Girl Blue' provides a clinical distance which is both its most fatal flaw and the key to its success.  After the girl herself is found, the next victims become the adults that people an underworld, rather than the children themselves.  This deflection reduces stress and keeps the book accessible to the reader.  On the other hand it makes the dark secret of its center a little less horrible than it should be.  Child abuse is a prevalent problem which rarely receives the attention it should because it is too strong an issue to confront directly.  'Little Girl Blue' is a fascinating start, but there are miles yet to go.	2002-03-23
1608479:US	53082946	R5R8ZNZW1EW8A	0953765911	407336201	Sherlock Holmes and the Apocalypse Murders (Sherlock Holmes Murders)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	The Ripper on a Tear	When Sherlock Holmes and Watson are called in to a gruesome murder they quickly realize that they have met the killer before.  For Jack the Ripper's signature is carved on the neck of the victim.  For Holmes this is horrible news.  When he first discovered the Ripper, the killer's social position was such that it was only possible to quietly oust him from England.  Now, years later, he is back, and crazier than ever.<br />In a matter of very little time the Ripper strikes again, this time attacking the new Director of Covent Garden in the middle of a performance of the Flying Dutchman.  A performance starring Irene Adler, the only woman to ever best the consulting detective.  Not only is the Ripper wandering London seeking out his persecutors, he has also formed an obsession for Ms. Adler.  Holmes must split his efforts if the talented Irene is to survive.<br />Holmes works with his brother Mycroft and Detective Lestrade, first trying to discover the killer's new identity, and, when it is found, track him down and discover the rest of his plans.  For the new Ripper doesn't want to limit himself to impromptu surgery.  He fully intends to bring the four horsemen of the apocalypse down on the city of London.<br />\\"The Apocalypse Murders\\" is a good, solid Holmesian romp.  Full of action and lots of quick deductions.  The villains are villainous and our heroes are as valiant as can be.  Expect Lots of atmosphere and spookiness as well.  Barry Day writes with no pretension and the result rings much truer than many efforts that are more imitative of Doyle's.  Don't expect a lot of depth and laborious efforts at meaning, just settle in for a great read that is just a bit too short.  This time you get to wonder if Holmes will get the girl and get his man as well.	2002-03-23
1608729:US	53082946	R3KN3HN9RXQHIR	1887089225	93685914	Ramayana: India's Immortal Tale of Adventure, Love and Wisdom	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	The Heartbreak of the King	Rama is the most perfect of King Dasarath's sons.  He is wise and kind, devout, respectful, and a fearsome warrior.  In the course of his youthful exploits he has fallen in love with Sita, who he now brings back in triumph to his father's city of Ayodhya.  But, on the very day he is to be named Dasarath's heir, treachery takes place.  Banished from Ajodhya by the machinations of one of Dasarath's jealous wives, Rama and Sita undertake an unconceivable adventure to rid the world of evil and return to Rama what is rightfully his.<br />And so begins one of the oldest and most spectacular adventures in literary history.  Perhaps the oldest Indian epic, 'The Ramayana' is a grand story, a cautionary tale, and a vivid picture of the Vedic culture of one of the world's larger countries.  This story, like told in 'The Mahabharata,' is deeply embedded in Indian culture.  The tales display many of the key beliefs that have shaped Indian thought for centuries.  For a student of the area, searching for common threads, they are required reading.  For many this is still a text of religious importance.  As Dharma quotes, \\"This legend is the bestower of longevity, the enhancer of fortune, and the dispeller of sins.<br />Certainly, in addition to these virtues, 'The Ramayana' is a font of creative ideas.  For those of us who get bogged down in Western approaches and answers it is an opportunity to see how other cultures have come to deal with questions that are common to all.  As such it is a lesson in the ingeniousness of the human mind and the great commonalties of the human spirit.  The difference in context and the epic scale can be a source of inspiration as well as outstanding entertainment.<br />This edition was created by Krishna Dharma, a Vaishnava priest and well-known translator of Sanskrit writings, is not so much a word for word translation as it is a detailed retelling.  As such its style and rhythm is better adapted to Western tastes than stricter, more academic fare.  On the other hand, Krishna Dharma leaves little out, and truly captures the feeling of the original.  As such this is a massive accomplishment.  The inclusion of various illustrations, both black and white and color enhance its value and impressiveness.  Previous to buying this copy my exposure to the legend has been via excerpts, descriptions, and reenactments.  These were adequate to their purpose, but reading the story in its proper sequence has added much to my experience.On the other hand, Krishna Dharma leaves little out, and truly captures the feeling of the original.  As such this is a massive accomplishment.  The inclusion of various illustrations, both black and white and color enhance its value and impressiveness.  Previous to buying this copy my exposure to the legend has been via excerpts, descriptions, and reenactments.  These were adequate to their purpose, but reading the story in its proper sequence has added much to my experience.	2002-03-23
1609820:US	53082946	RL29H91F7YDMH	0441002935	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Bit of the HAir of the Wolf that Bit You	Life is tough when you are the best animator and registered vampire killer in the St. Louis area.  For one thing, the police keep calling you in the middle of the night.  When Anita Blake settles in for a big date with werewolf Richard Zeeman, the interruptions are non-stop.  The first is from Jean-Claude, the jealous vampire Master of the City.  In the middle of dealing with the enraged undead, Anita is saved by the pager when she gets her second interruption.  She's wanted at the site of a suspected preternatural attack to help the police investigation.  What Anita finds at the crime site is no better than what she left at the theater.  The evidence she finds points to a rogue lycanthrope - mean, nasty and very hungry.<br />Heading home she is interrupted again.  This time it's Marcus and Raina, leaders of Richard Zeeman's wolf pack.  They and the leaders of every other family of lycanthropes in the St. Louis area as well. She is hardly sympathetic when they explain that someone is stalking the weres of the city.  Eight shapeshifters have disappeared.  Concerned about Richard's own safety, Anita undertakes the investigation.<br />Done yet?  Nope.  Back at her apartment Anita finds that her buddy Edward the bounty hunter is back in town.  His assignment this time is to track down the makers of a snuff film.  A particularly gruesome snuff film that starts a werewolf, a were leopard and a very short-lived human.  With badness going on in every direction Anita must find the solution to all these crimes before she, Richard, and many innocents become victims as well.<br />Aficionados will recognized the usual intricate Hamilton plot.  What they will not be prepared for are the complexities introduced by her love for Richard Zeeman.  Forced to deal with Richard's own nature she must realizes she must find he own definition of what is monster and what is not.  This new twist adds considerable depth to a complex tale.<br />How Laurell Hamilton manages to pick up all these threads, tie them together, and rush headlong to a pulse-stopping conclusion is something that must be read to be enjoyed.  Once again Hamilton pushes at the boundary of the typical girl meets monster story to create something that is the best of horror and romance.  Readers will be delighted, as usual.ese threads, tie them together, and rush headlong to a pulse-stopping conclusion is something that must be read to be enjoyed.  Once again Hamilton pushes at the boundary of the typical girl meets monster story to create something that is the best of horror and romance.  Readers will be delighted, as usual.	2002-03-22
1612453:US	53082946	R1YHQ9YYOPL4E5	0061043540	815700998	The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club	Books	5	24	25	N	N	General Rigor Mortis	When Lord Peter Wimsey comes down to the Bellona club to dine with an old friend he little expected to find the 90 year old General Fentiman sitting quietly by the fire in full rigor mortis.  Nor, did he expect to be confronted with a case about which one of the General or his sister, Lady Dormer, predeceased the other.  But, seeing that it was a matter of some half million pounds he was delighted to oblige old Mr. Murbles, the family solicitor.<br />It turns out that establishing Fentiman's time of death is going to be a major feat.  No one, including his heirs, the staff of the Bellona Club and most of London seems to recall what the General was doing that morning, or when he showed up, opened his newspaper and promptly expired.  Worse, what few facts that Wimsey can put together convince him that something was very, very wrong with Fentiman's timely ticking off.  Suddenly this is no longer a case of friendly detection but a serious investigation into a murder.<br />'The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club' was one of Dorothy Sayers' early smash hits.  It shows off Wimsey's charming urbanity against the gemlike setting of his friends and cohorts, only striking serious chords when grim necessity rears its monocled head.  Wimsey doesn't act quite as foolish as he was prone to in past novels, which makes him likeable as well as witty.  The other regular characters have also acquired some extra depth that makes everyone a bit more believable.  Everyone but the bit players, of course.  Each of those is, as usual, a quick, delightful pastiche, one of Sayers greatest talents.<br />This is one of Sayers' most memorable books, and, despite a plot that is a little too transparent, is one of her most re-readable.  The odd thing about a Sayers mystery story is how unimportant it is whether you know or can guess the murderer.  'Who' is less important than 'how' in these tales, and neither is as important as the balletic interaction of the players, most of whom you would like to find in your sitting room - it you had a sitting room large enough, that is.<br />This is also the first book that displays Wimsey's softer nature with the ladies.  While Marjorie Phelps is not destined to become Lord Peter's great love, we see glints of the Peter to come.  He shows a fair and attentive style without a hint of macho that will serve him well in his trials to come.  I am tempted to say that, if you don't enjoy this book, there is no hope for you as a Sayers fan.  That's not completely true, but ' The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club' is a completely representative Sayers effort and one of my perennial favorites.find in your sitting room - it you had a sitting room large enough, that is.<br />This is also the first book that displays Wimsey's softer nature with the ladies.  While Marjorie Phelps is not destined to become Lord Peter's great love, we see glints of the Peter to come.  He shows a fair and attentive style without a hint of macho that will serve him well in his trials to come.  I am tempted to say that, if you don't enjoy this book, there is no hope for you as a Sayers fan.  That's not completely true, but ' The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club' is a completely representative Sayers effort and one of my perennial favorites.	2002-03-20
1613695:US	53082946	RPHL8DURZ6XWJ	0060012331	665449973	The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Now Don't Get Your Tails in a Knot!	Once again Terry Pratchett reaches into is back of tricks and pulls out a rat named Dangerous Beans or another rat called Sardines (a dancing rat, mind you), or a street cat called Maurice, or a young woman named Malicia and even a boy named Keith. Keith? Must be a slip up. Let's see, the story all started when some ordinary rats got into the Magic College's trash heap and ate some thing that gave them brains. Well, a lot more brains than they had before.<br />And then a hungry cat ate one of the rats and suddenly it was getting regular headaches and making a point of not eating anything that talks. Maurice, being a practically minded cat, immediately saw the possibilities, and recruited Keith, who was a bit dumb looking but could play the pipes. Suddenly the troop was on the road, working the old pied piper scam, and making good money at it. Dangerous Beans was their spiritual guide, their thinker of Big Thoughts, the rest take care of undoing traps, spotting poison and widdling on things, etc.  In no time, town after town was anteing up to get rid of their rats.<br />The only drawback was that one couldn't very well work the same trick in the same place twice, so eventually the gang found themselves in the town of Bad Blintz. And this town was just a bit different. For one thing the resident rats had eaten all the food, but there weren't any resident rats to be found. For another thing, the resident rat catchers seemed to be making rat tails out of shoestrings. And there is something really, really bad in the cellars beneath the city. Worst of all, Malicia the mayor's daughter also lives in Bad Blintz.<br />If the above description gives you a clear idea of what 'The Amazing Maurice...' is about I've done my job poorly. Suffice it to say that a group of rats that do a much better job of being people than people do find themselves in a battle to save the town and, perhaps, life as we know it. Once again Pratchett has created a morality tale out of sarcasm and parody. One that can surprise us by touching our hearts unexpectedly. In Discworld, where nothing works quite like it should, things still manage to work out well (well, most of the time... for some people).<br />This tale is funny and likeable. While intended for young adults it works just as well for old youngsters like me. Even the strange references to Mr. Bunnsey and Ratty Rupert are fun. Just don't eat that green wobbly bit.y. One that can surprise us by touching our hearts unexpectedly. In Discworld, where nothing works quite like it should, things still manage to work out well (well, most of the time... for some people).<br />This tale is funny and likeable. While intended for young adults it works just as well for old youngsters like me. Even the strange references to Mr. Bunnsey and Ratty Rupert are fun. Just don't eat that green wobbly bit.	2002-03-19
1615949:US	53082946	RIIRK7MCZZI1F	0394716787	675970766	The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	4	103	109	N	N	Everything You Ever Wanted to Know and a Bit More	This edition of Poe's literary output is the latest incarnation of the original 'Complete Tales & Poems' which came out in 1938 issued by Vintage Press.  It has served several generations of students and Poe lovers.  Needless to say, it's longevity is proof of basic quality and integrity.  For the record, it also includes Poe's two essays, 'The Poetic Principal' and 'The Rationale of Verse.'  If you want a 'complete in one volume' approach.  This is it.<br /><br />Truth be told, there are a few technical drawbacks to this edition.  The first is size.  A thousand pages is a lot to deal with.  I always feel clumsy reading it.  The other big drawback is print size.  I am well into the time of life when tiny print is getting difficult to read.  Nor do I like narrow margins.<br /><br />But really, I don't think one can argue about the sheer quantity of good literature for a reasonable price.  It can be read, marked up, dragged around and have coffee spilled on it without ever making its owner feel the least bit guilty.  Most of the Poe readers of the world will just love this book.  Me, I'm a bit wierd.  I would rather have a nice leather bound set of the complete works, rather than just the fiction and poetry, a bit slimmer to hand and easier to read.  Considering that that would cost over 20 times the price of this paperback I intend to remain satisfied with this even if it kills me.	2002-03-18
1617096:US	53082946	R37MNCN9T7TKQI	1889554154	250746016	Winning a Won Game, Volume 2: Go Seigen's Lectures	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Inside the Mind of the Best.	Go Seigen is easily the best Go player of the 20th Century.  Born Wu Qingyuan in Fujian province (1914).  Go's father taught him the game when he was eight and he took of like a rocket.  At the age of 11 he was winning against most of China's top players.  Finally Go, the national champion of China in 1927, was offered the chance to play and study in Japan.  His career in Japan was every bit as spectacular.  In 1932 he reached 5-dan ranking.  This was a period of some turmoil in Go.  Many players, Go included, where trying new openings and breaking with tradition.  In Japan, where the traditions around the game are intense this caused a great deal of argument.  By the war, Go Seigen was and 8-dan, and already the most formidable player in Japan.<br />Go remained in seclusion during the war, but returned in force in 1947.  Two years later, at the age of 36, Go Seigen was made 9-dan.  The highest rank possible.  His games throughout are marked by a crystal clear ability to grasp the workings of a game and turn them to his advantage.  As a reader of his games one is constantly struck by how much of the game Go is able to see.  It is if every move, no matter how tactical always has a strategic reason behind it.  &quot;Winning a Won Game&quot; is the second in a series of lectures between the master and an anonymous player focused on how to create and keep an advantage at the Go board.<br />The style is to show the game at it's crisis point, then go back and play through the game (with heavy commentary), and the carry it through to the moment of decision.  Go Seigen's pride is well earned, but he is not ashamed to reveal his mistakes as well as his moments of brilliance.  Even though I am far from a 9-dan I found much to absorb, and intend to return to this volume many times.  There are ten games, seven that were one and 3 that were lost.  All are wonderful, and I am determined to track down the first volume in this series.  There are great examples of 3-3 and 4-4 openings.  Well worth the price.gs.  Well worth the price.	2002-03-16
1618947:US	53082946	R279RCXNQY2403	1590210042	852300676	Occultism and Modern Science: The Proper Philosophical Consequences	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Truth or Consequences	At first I didn't know quite what to make of this reprint of the 1923 translation of Oesterreich's German work.  The translation is muddy enough to disguise whether Oesterreich's purpose is to promote occultism or to attack it.  Gradually, as one reads through the case histories, it becomes apparent that the author is actually trying to mount a serious investigation of spiritualism and related phenomena.  Far from declaring that he has found the truth, Oesterreich declares that most of the claims of the practitioners can neither be substantiated nor disproved.<br />I found myself gradually becoming endeared to Oesterreich, with his stuffy phrasing and frustration with many of his investigations.  He is genuinely dedicated to the field of parapsychology, but he has no tolerance for the fakery prevalent in his time.  Some investigation reveals that Oesterreich was a man of great principal.  Married to a Jewish woman, he stood up to the Third Reich, was relieved of his position, and finally reinstated at the end of the war.  He was a distinguished and erudite man.  Another of his works is a fine study of mesmerism and mind control.<br />Oesterreich to a great dislike to the opinions of Rudolf Steiner, and actually challenges to come forth for examination, displaying an academic pugnacity that I couldn't help but admire.  I won't pretend this is an easy book to read through, but it is a tremendous source of insight into the beginnings of parapsychology and the various enthusiasms of the early twentieth century.  The writer has a talent for presenting phenomena in an open and honest fashion.  Much recommended for those with a historical bent.	2002-03-15
1621558:US	53082946	R3W41PJK4C78Y8	0312242743	762251295	The Watchmen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Twice the Trouble	For the second time, New York City faces destruction from the air.  This time the weapon is a missile full of anthrax and sarin, a neurotoxin.  A miracle occurs and the missile crashes through a window in the United Nations Building traveling backwards.  It fails to explode.  The ensuing investigation reveals the missile was built in Russia during the Cold War.  FBI Russian expert William Cowley is assigned to work closely with an old friend, Dimitri Danilov, one of Moscow's top men in the investigation of organized crime.<br />Working first on opposite sides of the Atlantic, and then together, the two men unravel a crazy quilt plot of Russian gangsters and American ultra right wing hackers, which masks an even more obscure story of political maneuvering and infighting.  Time after time, new evidence seems to obscure, rather than clarify, the case.  It seems that the criminals ability to plan and execute is only marred by their occasional poor choices of weapons.  In the meantime agents die and Cowley and Danilov seem powerless to make and progress.<br />The third player on the investigation team is FBI agent Pamela Darnley.  She works with Cowley and heads the U.S. investigation when he is in Russia.  To say that Darnley is ambitious is an understatement, but she is intelligent and determined, and is responsible for many of the case's breakthroughs.  Since Cowley and Danilov were originally introduced in \\"No Time For Heroes\\" most of the character development is lavished on Darnley.  The reader will find her an intriguing and unusual character.<br />I find I like novels in the spy genre best when they most resemble police procedurals, and that is what  \\"The Watchmen\\" excels at.  Plotting is tight as the story shifts back and forth from Russia to the States.  There are countless puzzle pieces, but the solutions are logical rather than magical.  And nobody has superpowers, either.  Other than slight flaws due to minimalistic character development this is a very readable story that echoes and extremely uncomfortable reality.<br />(\\"The Watchmen\\" was actually conceived and written before the events of 9/11.  In the light of that tragedy, portions of the book had to be revised to reflect that harsh reality.)able story that echoes and extremely uncomfortable reality.<br />(\\"The Watchmen\\" was actually conceived and written before the events of 9/11.  In the light of that tragedy, portions of the book had to be revised to reflect that harsh reality.)	2002-03-13
1621928:US	53082946	R1EKIS9UZL9WC7	0671721984	189091532	Mall Purchase Night	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	I'm Mall Shook Up	When eerie events at the Black Oak Mall create a vacancy in the security guards, ex-cop Andy Westin shows up.  Andy is a good guy, who has left the L.A. Police force because of the corruption and the violence.  Being a mall guard doesn't pay a lot, but he is looking forward to being more at peace than he has in a long time.  What Andy doesn't know is that the Mall is sitting right on top of an entrance to Faerie and his troubles are just about to begin.<br />Judy Cohen is a shop owner at the mall.  She runs a little place called 'BellBookand' which, naturally, is a candle store.  Business isn't great, but Judy is a positive thinker, and besides, she is also a practicing witch.  Andy meets Judy, they really like each other, but Andy gets the whim-whams every time Judy mentions witchcraft.  He also gets discomfited when little critters start to appear and disappear at the mall and when a ghost driven skateboard takes a shot at him.  He really gets uptight when a beautiful elf woman appears and lays a spell on him.  Even more so when Judy removes the spell and gives the elf a rash.<br />Kemper Cogswell owns the mall and is determined to sell it.  He has visions of running for office and needs the profits from the mall to fund his race.  He has a Japanese firm almost ready to buy the Mall, but is beginning to realize that these conservative clients may find mysterious rats that eat plastic coat hangers a little too strange.  Kemper issues orders that the weird has to stop and Andy finds himself messing with elves, brownies, drug dealers, air guitarists, thieves, a crazy news reporter, and even an ice troll.  Even with Judy helping, this is not the job of his dreams.<br />Rick Cook has been writing light fantasy for some time now, and has a solid reputation.  While he is no Tom Holt or Terry Pratchett, he is a good writer with the ability to pull off a nifty sight gag and the occasional over the top pun (this book's masterpiece, outside of the title, is 'I think it was a chocolate covered brownie\\").  Humor is a precious commodity at any time, and Rick Cook adds to the world's balance with a quirky story of magic that is half in the world and half out of it.  Just avoid the fur safe and stay out of the way of the skateboards.chocolate covered brownie\\").  Humor is a precious commodity at any time, and Rick Cook adds to the world's balance with a quirky story of magic that is half in the world and half out of it.  Just avoid the fur safe and stay out of the way of the skateboards.	2002-03-13
1625486:US	53082946	R2PJLE8YZQOHPU	0801494095	775431461	Devil: Perceptions of Evil from Antiquity to Primitive Christianity (Cornell Paperbacks)	Books	1	96	118	N	Y	It's Not In The Details	It is rare for me to find myself giving a book a very bad rating.  For one thing, I reserve one star for books that do more harm than good, and there are really few works that have no redeeming value.  For another, I make a real effort not to buy books in that category, since it's a waste of my time.  This book, \\"The Devil,\\" caught me by surprise.  I expected one thing and got something else entirely.  I'm not sure if it's my expectations or the book itself that are the source of my disappointment, but I will go with my instincts for now.<br />What did I expect?  A good historical and anthropological study about the role of the devil or devils in human history up to the beginnings of Christianity.  In particular, I was interested in demonic legends in first millennium BCE Israel.  What did I get?  I guess the best way to put it is that, had the subtitle should have been \\"Jeffrey Russell's Perceptions of Evil...\\" I would have been less surprised.<br />The reader gets an early warning when, in the preface, Russell starts out with \\"This is a work of history, not of theology\\" and then immediately begins discussing theological and metaphysical issues.  Russell's style is reminiscent of a Victorian churchman/academic, rambling from one subject to another in mid-paragraph, regularly making portentous statements that seem to have no basis in fact.  In fact, one of his most unusual quirks is to state a premise, actually indicate that there is either no or conflicting evidence for it, and then go on to use it for further logical gyrations.  This is an argument style better suited to politicians than academics.<br />Gradually it becomes clear that Russell has at least one hidden agenda.  He is intent on making a case for the dualistic nature of God.  This causes him to flit from one isolated fact to another, skipping over any material in between that it in conflict with this theory.  The worst examples of this are in the section entitled \\"Hebrew Personifications of Evil.\\"  As most people know, outside of the Job and the unfortunate snake, the Old Testament makes very little mention of the demonic.  There were some beliefs, but they are discussed more in sacred materials external to the Bible, dating from the Babylonian Exile onward.  Russell misses that material, pays attention to Job, and then focuses entirely on several books of the Apocrypha as evidence of Hebrew dualism.  In the process he skips an entire millennia or so of Jewish thinking.  This is not exactly history.<br />I don't know quite what to make of an academic historical text which, in the end, turns out to have been a soapbox for a writer's own orations on the nature and place of evil (with a capital E).  But I do know that I don't like it one bit.  If the volume have been clearly labeled as philosophy or theology, I would have gone on to find something else, and this problem would not have arisen.<br />The book attempts to cover ancient, classical, Hebrew and early Christian civilization.  As it is, regardless of Russell's qualifications as a medievalist, he seems a bit out of his depth in the fields of ancient and biblical history.  There is an extensive bibliography, of which I know many of the citations.  Surprisingly, it appears that Russell's sources are much less biased than he is himself.  If you must buy this book, I suggest you use it to key into other authors and thinkers rather than as a conclusive resource on it's own.most people know, outside of the Job and the unfortunate snake, the Old Testament makes very little mention of the demonic.  There were some beliefs, but they are discussed more in sacred materials external to the Bible, dating from the Babylonian Exile onward.  Russell misses that material, pays attention to Job, and then focuses entirely on several books of the Apocrypha as evidence of Hebrew dualism.  In the process he skips an entire millennia or so of Jewish thinking.  This is not exactly history.<br />I don't know quite what to make of an academic historical text which, in the end, turns out to have been a soapbox for a writer's own orations on the nature and place of evil (with a capital E).  But I do know that I don't like it one bit.  If the volume have been clearly labeled as philosophy or theology, I would have gone on to find something else, and this problem would not have arisen.<br />The book attempts to cover ancient, classical, Hebrew and early Christian civilization.  As it is, regardless of Russell's qualifications as a medievalist, he seems a bit out of his depth in the fields of ancient and biblical history.  There is an extensive bibliography, of which I know many of the citations.  Surprisingly, it appears that Russell's sources are much less biased than he is himself.  If you must buy this book, I suggest you use it to key into other authors and thinkers rather than as a conclusive resource on it's own.	2002-03-10
1628476:US	53082946	R2IBZNC8XQP8Q0	1889554170	481874097	Capturing Stones Sacrifice Techniques: Volume 2 (Art of Go)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Capturing Stones Sacrifice Techniques	I got this book by accident, and a fortuitous one at that.  I ordered the first volume in this series, 'The Art of Connecting Stones,' and received this instead.  Since I didn't know that there was a second volume I took a look at it and decided to keep it.  Now I am waiting impatiently for Volume 1.  I have to compliment Yutopian Enterprises for making many fine Go books available to the Western audience.<br />This volume focuses on sacrifice plays.  Two kinds of them in particular.  One is the art of crisscrossing sacrifices that is called 'playing under the stones' and the other is using sacrifices to force one's opponent to take on eye space shapes that cannot be maintained.  These are some of the most exquisite tactical plays in Go, often involving a lot of reading of the stones, and are devastatingly effective when the opportunity arises.<br />Finding those opportunities is what this book is about.  Using a problem/explanation approach it teaches the player what to look for in play.  The technique involved is not all that difficult.  But seeing the shapes involved and taking advantage of them takes more practice in reading than most players ever see.  This is the frustrating part of getting stronger at the game.  In the 91 problems in this book is the experience of a lifetime of playing for most of us.<br />Many of the problems are well within the grasp of the average amateur.  I was able to work most of them out on my board.  Which means that Wu Dingyuan and Yu Xing have written the book just as it should be written for the player most likely to benefit from it's contents.  Well worth buying.	2002-03-07
1631044:US	53082946	R31KRL0U2VPCKX	0425181006	458493414	Ghostkiller	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	She's Not Quite Herself Lately	We first meet the Ghostkiller and Harry Palladin under an oil tank in Baltimore.  After enduring a spree of rapes, mutilations and killings, Palladin has managed to track down the Ghostkiller.  The police detective has no intention of letting the killer survive.  After shooting him and burning him to a crisp Harry follows the Ghostkiller to the hospital and makes doubly (tripley?) sure of the death.<br />But something goes haywire.  Nancy Greenbaum, who lay in shock in the next hospital cubical, suddenly comes back to life, but not as Nancy.  The Ghostkiller is shocked to find itself returned as a female, but it is determined to survive.  Even as Harry leaves the hospital believing he has won, the demented killer begins to plot again.  To make matters more complicated, Nancy's spirit, suddenly thrust from its own body, now finds itself no longer an attractive married psychologist, but embodied as Nell, an 11 year old black girl.<br />The plot proceeds as expected.  Harry's killing of the original Ghostkiller comes under question when the murders start again...  The corkscrew complexity of this horror tale mounts, as hot dog sellers, drug dealers and the Internal Affairs department get involved.  Sailing serenely through this crazy quilt is a stoned killer who needs to feed to survive.<br />This book shouldn't work.  The plot is hardly new.  The characters are uniformly flaky (the sanest being the possessed 11 year old).  And the monster is a bit too strong, fast, and brilliant.  But somehow it does.  It turns out to be pleasantly readable, although it is certainly not great art.  Perhaps the inadvertent comedy of a seriously overweight police detective chasing a monster aided by a young girl and several juvenile delinquents makes it more than the author originally intended.  Or perhaps it is simply so bad it transcends itself.  Regardless of why I found myself enjoying it much more than was justifiable.  So I am reluctant to recommend it, but if you do buy it you will probably enjoy it.  In spite of yourself.will probably enjoy it.  In spite of yourself.	2002-03-05
1633419:US	53082946	RNT9JZSD9RRQ7	0061043583	71884098	Unnatural Death (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	An Excess of Deceit	When Dr. Edward Carr overhears Lord Peter Wimsey and Detective Charles Parker discussing crime and the responsibility of the medical profession, he is drawn to share a perplexing problem of his own.  When a patient of his who was slowly dying of cancer suddenly took much worse and died, he was unable to sign the death certificate with confidence and insisted on a post mortem, greatly discomfiting the survivor, one Mary Whittaker.  When nothing suspicious is found, Dr. Carr found himself losing patients, and eventually had to sell his practice.<br />Wimsey is intrigued, and, despite the misgivings of both the doctor and Detective Parker, dispatches the elderly Miss Alexandra Climpson to gather information in the town of Leahampton while he pursues other leads in London.  He finds many suspicions, but no facts, even when one death and then another are reported.  In each case there are no indications of foul play, and Wimsey becomes convinced that he has grabbed the tail of the perfect crime.  His opinion is not shared by Parker, however, and it is only reluctantly that the latter consents to investigate.<br />Gradually circumstance builds, and even Parker must admit that there are many questions to be answers.  Yet all are baffled.  Even knowing who the perpetrator must be, the investigators are unable to formulate a case that will stand in court.  Wimsey is up against one of those sociopathic minds that pays careful attention to detail and apparently has the means to murder as if by magic.  Dorothy Sayers has created a truly baffling case.<br />The greatest delight of this novel is the first appearance of Miss Alexandra Climpson.  A delightfully sharp woman who is a persistent and dedicated investigator in the service of Lord Peter.  Initially giving the appearance of the archetypal maiden aunt, it quickly becomes apparent that Miss Climpson has unplumbed depths and she will return often to the delectation and joy of the reader.<br />While 'Unnatural Death' is an eminently readable and entertaining story, it does not bear up as well on rereading.  For one thing, most of the book is spent knowing exactly who is guilty but not having the important clue in hand.  As a matter of personal preference, I like to have to guess the criminal better than guessing the means.  Also, since the story depends on a trick solution, the ending is less satisfying than it might have been.  All this aside, it is still a great story.  Dorothy Sayers' worst (which this isn't) is far better than most writers' best.  Have no fear, you will enjoy this.nently readable and entertaining story, it does not bear up as well on rereading.  For one thing, most of the book is spent knowing exactly who is guilty but not having the important clue in hand.  As a matter of personal preference, I like to have to guess the criminal better than guessing the means.  Also, since the story depends on a trick solution, the ending is less satisfying than it might have been.  All this aside, it is still a great story.  Dorothy Sayers' worst (which this isn't) is far better than most writers' best.  Have no fear, you will enjoy this.	2002-03-04
1634834:US	53082946	R1KP4BHG5MDG8P	1889554057	722176759	Yang Yilun's ingenious life and death puzzles	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Past Beginner's Level	These are two volumes of teaching puzzles put together by Yang Yilun, a well-known Chinese 7 dan player.  Yang has shown a dedicated interest in the game, both as a player as well as a coach and teacher.  After a very strong career in the Shanghai area Yang is now teaching in the United States, with many fortunate students.<br />The puzzles in the books are arranged into 4 categories - Elementary and Junior in the first volume, and Senior and Advanced in the second.  Do not be mislead by the title 'Elementary.'  These are all a cut above the typical tesuji style problem, which often asks only for the best move or trick to use next.  These puzzles all expect the reader to have an instinct for tesuji already developed, and expect some ability to 'read' the problem and think ahead.  Most require that one can lay out a series of moves to exploit a weakness.  Each ensuing section demands stronger skills.  Volume 1, which is sold here, is aimed at amateurs from 10kyu to 5kyu or better. But even a shodan will find the Advanced puzzles a challenge.<br />This is as it should be.  I have been embarrassed by some of the simple problems and lucky with a few of the more difficult, but, overall, these books give a player a very good way to both assess where he or she is as a player and work on the very skills that will carry them to the next level.  The important thing is that one shouldn't treat these as if these as if they were mere brainteasers.  Don't worry if you 'get it' on the first try or not.  Work the puzzle through either mentally or by play, and aim at grasping the principles involved.  Expect to come back time and time again until you feel comfortable that you can recognize a parallel situation and evaluation the options involved.<br />I like the simple, easy to read format of the books quite a bit.  With my eyesight it is a delight to find a book on Go that I do not have to squint at.  Many players will find this book and it's sequel just the thing to help them make sure that they play 1000 different games on the way to shodan, instead of the same one, over and over.  This should be on any player's must have list.sure that they play 1000 different games on the way to shodan, instead of the same one, over and over.  This should be on any player's must have list.	2002-03-02
1635177:US	53082946	RXEICB1HO8HZG	1889554359	175110755	Rescue and Capture (Pocket Skills Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Vest-pocket Go Reading	This is the first in a new series of little puzzle books written by 7-dan player Yang YiLun.  Yang is a well known teacher of the game who has worked in the United States for the past 10 years.  A skilled competitor, he has a knack for devising teaching puzzles that are both entertaining and enlightening.<br />Justifiably respected for a challenging two volume series entitled 'Ingenious Life and Death Puzzles,' Yang has this time focused on puzzles of a less weighty nature.  This small volume contains 80 puzzles, half on rescue and half on capture, which are intended to be worked out in spare moments, rather than in deep study at the game board.<br />Whether in backpack or back pocket, these puzzles are most accessible, neither too hard nor overly simple.  As such they are useful to a vary wide range of players in the sub 1 dan class.  Which is most of the players in the world.  I don't think beginners should be frightened off either.  The printing is simple, but adequate, and the explanations are sufficient.  The second volume in this series, 'Tricks in Joseki' is in print, and should be available shortly.	2002-03-02
1640089:US	53082946	R2W9KWUF3G6F9H	0393321258	137736683	Under Cover of Daylight	Books	5	34	37	N	Y	A Dish Best Eaten Cold	Having recently read the latest volume in the Thorn series ('Blackwater Sound') to my great satisfaction, I decided to pursue reading the rest of the novels, this time in more orthodox order.  I began this first book expecting an enjoyable, but slightly less effective story and discovered instead that the Thorn tales start right out with a tour-de-force.  James Hall has been writing for a while, and it is a bit embarrassing to have to admit that I somehow managed to miss a writer of this caliber.<br />'Under Cover of Daylight' is about revenge, to put it plainly.  Fifteen years earlier the 19 year old Thorn killed Dallas James, the man whose driving caused the death of Thorn's parents before Thorn had even known them.  Now 35, Thorn has yet to integrate that death and accept himself, to get his life past that awful moment and back on track.  These hidden feelings interfere in his current relationship with Sarah Ryan, a Miami lawyer, who is also the close friend of his foster mother, Kate Truman.  Kate and Sarah share another interest, a deep desire to keep commercialism from destroying the Florida Keys.<br />Suddenly Kate turns up dead in her boat...  Deeply stricken, Thorn is once again compelled to take justice on himself.  One more time he seeks revenge.  The two quests, one by a 19 year old boy and the other by a mature man, play against each other.  Thorn seeks a more complicated blood price this time...  All of this is threaded together by his feelings for Sarah, for a relationship that takes as many twists and turns as the complex plot of the book.<br />I was surprised again by the depth of Thorn's character.  It would be far easier for Hall to make Thorn into a good-guy heavy, but that never happens.  Underneath the seemingly unambitious and directionless maker of fishing lures are surprising facets of character.  Hall's facility with character is not limited to Thorn.  Sarah, and Sugarman, Thorn's closest friend also manage to avoid becoming stereotypes.  Perhaps most surprising are the killers themselves, who spring to life - unpleasant, tormented, and psychotic, but totally fascinating.<br />This is a treat of a book, from its eccentric actors to the details of fishing and life in the Keys.  It creates a Florida that you want to go down and touch.  To see if it might just be real after all.  You will find much violence, but little of it excessive.  There is a fine sense of what is needed to bring the story home without the need to disgust or offend the reader.  I am looking forward to the remainder of this series.  You should too.erhaps most surprising are the killers themselves, who spring to life - unpleasant, tormented, and psychotic, but totally fascinating.<br />This is a treat of a book, from its eccentric actors to the details of fishing and life in the Keys.  It creates a Florida that you want to go down and touch.  To see if it might just be real after all.  You will find much violence, but little of it excessive.  There is a fine sense of what is needed to bring the story home without the need to disgust or offend the reader.  I am looking forward to the remainder of this series.  You should too.	2002-02-26
1642539:US	53082946	RLOMMP8Y7D2J7	0061043532	776161189	Clouds of Witness	Books	5	49	53	N	N	I Am My Brother's Keeper	Dorothy Sayers' second Lord Peter Wimsey novel comes in on a more serious note.  Wimsey, just returned from a long rest in Corsica, finds himself embroiled in a murder far closer to home.  While staying at a hunting lodge with friends Peter's brother Gerald has gotten tangled up in a murder, and has become the chief suspect.  To make matters more complicated, the victim is their sister Mary's ex-fianc&eacute;e.  Very recently ex, as a matter of fact.  The murder was done shortly after Gerald has thrown him out of the house as a card cheat.<br />When an alibi is demanded, Gerald refuses to give one, and so is charged with the crime.  As he is the Duke of Denver, Gerald's case will not be heard in court, but before the House of Lords.  Lord Peter is confronted with a case in which the accused seems bound and determined to get himself hung.  Gerald offers no help to his brother, the police, or even Impey Biggs, his barrister.  Peter and his long time friend Inspector Parker, are left with only faint clues and surmises as the basis for building a defense.<br />It quickly becomes apparent that there is guilt everywhere.  Denis Cathcart, the victim, had lived a suspicious life in Paris, Lady Mary has complicated ties to the British socialist movement, and Gerald, if he wasn't killing Cathcart, had to be doing something he didn't want to reveal.  Wimsey and Parker find a surplus of suspicious behavior, in England and abroad, but the puzzle refuses to be unlocked.  Worse, those mysteries they can solve do nothing to help Gerald.  Time marches inexorably on, and Lord Peter must make a last minute race against time in an effort to solve the mystery.<br />Despite the seriousness of this case, with all its lurking tragedies, Lord Peter retains his sarcastic style, providing both comic relief and the insights of the master detective.  This time however he does reveal more of serious side, leaving behind his facetious exterior as he displays new depth.  Sayers, of course, continues to write brilliantly, providing finely grained characters and a wonderful sense of place.  An unexpected side romance shows signs of beginning, which will delight the readers, as Inspector Parker leaves behind theology long enough to embarrass himself.<br />The Wimsey novels can be read in any order, although the latter part of the series does have some thematic material with develops over several volumes.  The early novels are independent tales, and I exhort the reader to start with whatever is at hand.  In little time you will find yourself addicted to an England that never really was, but certainly should have been.write brilliantly, providing finely grained characters and a wonderful sense of place.  An unexpected side romance shows signs of beginning, which will delight the readers, as Inspector Parker leaves behind theology long enough to embarrass himself.<br />The Wimsey novels can be read in any order, although the latter part of the series does have some thematic material with develops over several volumes.  The early novels are independent tales, and I exhort the reader to start with whatever is at hand.  In little time you will find yourself addicted to an England that never really was, but certainly should have been.	2002-02-24
1643792:US	53082946	R1VZDIOIHDIBFF	0195073495	313657546	The Origins and Development of Classical Hinduism	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Brief But Lucid Introduction	One of the worst problems in getting a grasp of Indian religion and philosophy is that there is so much of it.  If you are a dilettante, such as I, trying to keep the Vedas, Upanishads, Sutras, and their derivatives in some kind of mental order is a task that distracts one from the real reasons for such study.  In addition, the terminology is often daunting, especially for a beginner.  Yet the ideas of India and it's neighbors have had influence far beyond their countries of origin, and a good basic understanding grants tremendous insight into the workings of the human spirit.<br />Fortunately, there are many writers who have dedicated themselves to the explication of Indian philosophy.  Almost too many.  A short visit to the book store reveals many shelves of material, most of which entice and bewilder.  Of course, this isn't surprising given the vastness of the subject matter.  What is really needed it a bit of a roadmap, with enough detail to point the way to areas of interest.  Which is where Arthur Basham's thin little book on classical Hinduism fits perfectly.<br />Basham is both a scholar of ancient Indian culture and religion and one of its best proponents.  His style is very clear and lucid, even when the subject matter is a bit dry.  This volume is actually a collection of a series of his lectures put together in 1989 and is quite accessible.  These span a period of time from about 2700 BCE through to the Common Era and beyond.  More than Hinduism itself is discussed.  Buddhism and Jainism come under scrutiny, although not as deeply as the main subject area.  The editor (Kenneth Zysk) has appended a fine bibliography which will help guide the reader in further pursuits.<br />The size and style preclude excessive detail, but Basham carefully steers clear of oversimplification.  The sections proceed in chronological order, discussing the culture, the writings, and the important themes and ideas.  It is very interesting to see how Hinduism takes form and moves through many stages of development, flirting with theism, monotheism, and every other variation in between, respecting many different beliefs instead of hammering out a single doctrine.<br />This is a perfect starting out book.  Also recommended is Basham's justifiably popular 'The Wonder That Was India.'ves through many stages of development, flirting with theism, monotheism, and every other variation in between, respecting many different beliefs instead of hammering out a single doctrine.  <br />This is a perfect starting out book.  Also recommended is Basham's justifiably popular 'The Wonder That Was India.'	2002-02-23
1644659:US	53082946	R3BUC2KFG5IVZM	0061043575	414807640	Whose Body? (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	5	29	36	N	N	The Body in the Bathroom	When Lord Peter Wimsey is called in by Her Grace the Dowager Duchess (AKA Mother) to help extricate the timid Mr. Thipps from a case of body in the bathtub he finds himself embroiled in for far more than he has bargained.  For one thing, the church architect's excess body, naked except for a Gold pince-nez, appears to be inexplicable.  When it turns out that Sir Reuben Levy, an important financier is missing, the police become convinced that the body is that of Levy, and seize Thipps and the maid as the guilty party, despite all evidence to the contrary.  Now Wimsey must work quickly with his friend Inspector Parker to solve both crimes and save both Thipps and the leaking church roof.<br />Thus begins Dorothy Sayer's first novel in the Lord Peter Wimsey series.  Partly a satire of the British upper class, partly a comedy of manners, and mostly the first of a time honored series of detective novels that very nearly reinvented the British mystery story in the 1920's.  Lord Peter is the second son of the current generation of the Dukes of Denver, his rather stuffy brother currently holding the title.  Lately recovered from some harrowing war experiences and a badly ended relationship, he has come to be an amateur detective as a way to gain a new focus in life.  Wimsey is intelligent, only occasionally serious, and a perfect image of the English gentleman.<br />Accompanying Lord Peter is his most excellent manservant Bunter, who served with him in the war and has become a loyal and true companion.  Bunter is the straight man for many of Wimsey's quips and quotes, but has a wry wit of his own, and is probably the first forensic photographer in detective fiction.  Lord Peter's other aide in this and ensuing tales is Inspector Parker who is of the same age and equally bright in his own right.  A man after my own heart, Parker reads theology for entertainment.  While the detection style has much of the same cerebral quality which mark many of Holmes' adventures, Wimsey and his companions are far more accessible than the 'Consulting Detective.'<br />Sayer's has a unique ability to do caricature, creating little gemlike performances for each of the people who parade through her stories.  Be they somewhat dull policemen to distinguished surgeons, nobody is unmemorable.  The wonderful characters, and Wimsey's own unique charms are very much the reasons that ''Whose Body' and the rest of the tales remain rereadable long after the plot has been completely memorized.  Hopefully, you are a reader newly come to the world of Lord Peter and can look forward to the delights of this discovery.  Dorothy Sayers is very much in a class by herself, both in terms of her own achievements and because of the history of her most remarkable invention, Lord Peter Death Bredon Wimsey.his companions are far more accessible than the 'Consulting Detective.'<br />Sayer's has a unique ability to do caricature, creating little gemlike performances for each of the people who parade through her stories.  Be they somewhat dull policemen to distinguished surgeons, nobody is unmemorable.  The wonderful characters, and Wimsey's own unique charms are very much the reasons that ''Whose Body' and the rest of the tales remain rereadable long after the plot has been completely memorized.  Hopefully, you are a reader newly come to the world of Lord Peter and can look forward to the delights of this discovery.  Dorothy Sayers is very much in a class by herself, both in terms of her own achievements and because of the history of her most remarkable invention, Lord Peter Death Bredon Wimsey.	2002-02-22
1646763:US	53082946	R1YO5VQZQEVQTT	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Tyger, Tyger Burning [Not So] Bright	Tyger, Tyger Burning [Nearly] Bright<br />For some reason, James Patterson's novels about Alex Cross, the psychologist turned police detective, never seem to develop.  Not that a series has to develop, but Alex Cross, for many reasons, should have more depth to him after seven novels.  Especially considering the effect his investigations have on his emotional life.  But he goes on about the same, with the same too perfect family, with a series of similarly unsuccessful or tragic relationships, doing the same things to the same kind of bad guys.  Fortunately he generally writes well, but Patterson is in grave danger of becoming a slave to his formula.<br />'Violets are Blue' is actually a continuation of 'Roses are Red.'  It picks up the story of Alex Cross's hunt for The Mastermind with the murder of Betsey Cavaliere a FBI agent and close friend.  Next time, The Mastermind's voice assures the detective over his cell phone, Alex Cross will be next.  Then, abruptly, we switch to a different set of killers, a pair of young men who believe they are vampires, and are leaving a trail of gruesome death behind them.  Nor do they hunt alone, a pet tiger is a frequent companion as they seek their victims du jour.<br />This is really the primary plot, centering on an underground vampire cult that is not quite hidden from sight.  Patterson uses it to reintroduce regulars like Kyle Craig and Sampson and to bring a new player on board, Inspector Jamilla Hughes of the San Francisco Police Department.  With the romantic interest in hand, the plot is now ready follow its regular pattern of grisly killings, phone calls from The Mastermind and miscellaneous repartee.  The vampire plot reminds me of those Russian containers that have containers in them, ad infinitum.  Every time you get past on vampire, up pops another one.<br />By the time you either discover who The Mastermind is, you will be convinced that he is one of the most overblown, silly serial killers in the genre.  We are assured that The Mastermind is a mysterious genius who pulls all the strings from a distance.  But the reality is much less satisfying than the hype.  For some reason Patterson has peopled this novel with a string of stoned egotistical killers, all of whom last far longer than they should have.  One is tempted to conclude that it is the police who keep serial killers on the streets.<br />Sadly, with just a little bit richer plot and a dash more attention to the dimensionality of the characters, this could have been a respectable novel.  Instead is simply mediocre, a pattern repeated until it begins to be tedious.  I tend to blame this sort of thing on publishers, who seem to firmly believe that more of the same thing it best, especially if it is action, and that character development is a risky business.  I would have thought that Patterson had enough moral fiber to resist this trend, but apparently the temptation is too great.  A plague of vampires on all their houses.ssured that The Mastermind is a mysterious genius who pulls all the strings from a distance.  But the reality is much less satisfying than the hype.  For some reason Patterson has peopled this novel with a string of stoned egotistical killers, all of whom last far longer than they should have.  One is tempted to conclude that it is the police who keep serial killers on the streets.<br />Sadly, with just a little bit richer plot and a dash more attention to the dimensionality of the characters, this could have been a respectable novel.  Instead is simply mediocre, a pattern repeated until it begins to be tedious.  I tend to blame this sort of thing on publishers, who seem to firmly believe that more of the same thing it best, especially if it is action, and that character development is a risky business.  I would have thought that Patterson had enough moral fiber to resist this trend, but apparently the temptation is too great.  A plague of vampires on all their houses.	2002-02-21
1648489:US	53082946	R2H5A7WCT7627E	0312203845	466884412	Blackwater Sound: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Old Man and the Thorn	I am subject to a strange form of psychopathic dysfunction which compels me to read the last book in a series before going back and reading any of its predecessors.  Or it feels that way, anyway.  Usually the reason is that everyone is raving about a book and I am too impatient to read 10 books just so I can read the latest and bestest.  Generally this theory works out; I like the latest book and go back and read all the rest of the series with the serene knowledge that, even if the author trips up a bit, it will work out in the end.  James W. Hall is such a case in point.<br />The story opens on a Braswell family fishing expedition, where the oldest son is pulled overboard and drowned in the process of tagging a giant marlin.  After that short prequel, the scene shifts forward to the Florida Keys ten years later where Thorn, the hero of these mystery/adventure tales is boating with his (soon to be ex-) girlfriend.  Technically, I believe she breaks up with him for being too interesting.  In any case, this piece of business done, a commercial jet crashes right in front of him.  Thorn goes to the rescue, and notices that another boat, which he later tracks to the Braswells, is not helping at all.  This is the first tightening of a web that draws Thorn into direct conflict with the wealthy and powerful Braswells, their compulsions, and a weapon that can destroy electronic systems.<br />The Braswells are the ultimate dysfunctional family.  The are headed by A.J., who lives only to find Big Mother, the fish that killed his son Andy.  Johnny, the youngest, is a bit of a psychotic space cadet who loves knives and gangster movies.  Cleaning up after everyone else is Morgan, who runs the family company, keeps Johnny from becoming a serial killer, and has some very weird problems of her own.  It is Morgan who has cooked up a scheme, using some of Andy's formula's and plans, to create a world class weapon of destruction.  The Braswells have only one reaction to people who get in their way, and Thorn naturally moves to the top of the list.<br />On Thorn's side are Alexandra Rafferty, a police photographer, and her father, the mostly wacky but sometimes wise Lawton Collins.  His good friend Sugarman also plays a vital roll.  The bill is filled out with countless other characters, some witty, some grim, and all well painted.  While 'Blackwater Sound' is mostly action, Hall's ability to build character is outstanding, and has to be a large part of the reason that readers keep coming back.  I am tempted to compare these stories to those of the dean of Florida mystery writers, John MacDonald, who is a long time favorite of mine.  But the truth is that both of these writers are masters in their own right.  Certainly, if you like one, you will no doubt like the other.  By all means, read this novel.  As I've indicated, there is no problem with starting at with this volume, or any other.in their way, and Thorn naturally moves to the top of the list.<br />On Thorn's side are Alexandra Rafferty, a police photographer, and her father, the mostly wacky but sometimes wise Lawton Collins.  His good friend Sugarman also plays a vital roll.  The bill is filled out with countless other characters, some witty, some grim, and all well painted.  While 'Blackwater Sound' is mostly action, Hall's ability to build character is outstanding, and has to be a large part of the reason that readers keep coming back.  I am tempted to compare these stories to those of the dean of Florida mystery writers, John MacDonald, who is a long time favorite of mine.  But the truth is that both of these writers are masters in their own right.  Certainly, if you like one, you will no doubt like the other.  By all means, read this novel.  As I've indicated, there is no problem with starting at with this volume, or any other.	2002-02-20
1649941:US	53082946	R3M26YYMTAC0LA	0789468077	161480648	Ainsley Harriott's Barbecue Bible	Books	4	5	5	N	N	When You Crave the Very Zest	What, you may ask, is an intellectual snob such as myself doing reviewing a TV series cookbook on barbecuing.  Well, I have a small confession to make - I love barbecued foods, but my lifestyle doesn't give me many opportunities to indulge. A friend gave me this book, probably in the hope of widening my horizons, and has succeeded.  I intend to convince everyone I know to have a barbecue and make goodies from this book.<br />Ainsley Harriott, who has brought the madcap back into cooking, has made this into a treasure chest of unusual and delicious sounding recipes.  He includes recipes for 41 sauces and relishes alone, which I find overwhelming.  He then goes on to create page after page of appetizers, main courses, vegetables, side dishes, breads, desserts, and drinks.  Colorful photography guarantees that the reader with be tormented by the desire to eat everything one sees.<br />In spite of silly names like Chargrilled Pineapple Chicken Kiss-Kiss and Colorful Calabrian Lamb Patties, the recipes are actually quite sensibly done.  Ingredients are laid out and instructions are carefully stepped out.  Sections on equipment, barbecuing tips, and suggested menus pretty much guarantee that almost anyone can go from novice to master of the grill with few hitches.  Why settle for burgers when you can dine on Barbecued Lobster with Three Flavored Butters?	2002-02-18
1652356:US	53082946	R2FKI9KFT0GT5F	0440236169	504517515	Birdman	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Silence Without the Genius	I bought this book without realizing that it was being billed as the newest 'Silence of the Lambs' wannabe, and that turned out to be fortunate.  I consider that work a great display of talent and a great serial killer tale.  'Birdman' is a good story, but it is no 'Silence.'  Had I been expecting one this would have been a considerably different review.  It is a shame that modern publishers do not trust a book to make it on its own merits, and thus set up readers for unnecessary disappointments.<br /><br />'Birdman' is set in London, and opens with the discovery of the corpses of five women, each surgically modified, made up, and provided with an 'artificial' heart.  These grim, ugly victims become the custody of one Detective Inspector Jack Caffery, as he tries to understand and track down their killer.  Jack has his own problems, a relationship he doesn't seem to be able to extract himself from and a compulsive need to seek revenge on the man who killed his brother when they were children.<br /><br />Jack finds himself in conflict with the prejudices of his new department as well as a deviant criminal mind.  His fellow officers have little patience with profiling techniques and are quick to settle for anyone who appears to have had the opportunity.  But Jack knows the murderer is no simple pimp or drug dealer.  This dark mind defies both the intellect and the stomach in its insatiable quest for sexual partners among the dead.  The killer, who seeks his victims among London's ladies of the night, doesn't play and kill, but prefers his victims dead first - a necrophile.<br /><br />The narration expands to include the story of the killer as well as the activities of DI Caffery.  This approach does give the reader some insight into what is an unusual form of psychopath and even builds some sense of sympathy.  This is, however, my least favorite plot device.  Especially when its use gives away too much of the plot, which turns this from an interesting forensic and procedural puzzle into a suspense story where most of the tension comes from waiting for Caffery to discover what the reader already knows.<br /><br />Thus, an otherwise well-written story is reduced to a violent chase tale.  For some reason this has happened a lot in my recent reading.  My observation is that one out of twenty authors can manage shifting viewpoints without losing some control of the story.  Mo Hayder does better than many, but is eventually overmastered by it.  I have come to think that editors do not believe that a reader will enjoy a book if he or she has to go more than 200 pages without knowing who is the murderer.  But even with that fault this is a very enjoyable if extremely graphic story, with good characters and some very surprising twists.  By all means read it if you want a good serial killer tale.spense story where most of the tension comes from waiting for Caffery to discover what the reader already knows.    Thus, an otherwise well-written story is reduced to a violent chase tale.  For some reason this has happened a lot in my recent reading.  My observation is that one out of twenty authors can manage shifting viewpoints without losing some control of the story.  Mo Hayder does better than many, but is eventually overmastered by it.  I have come to think that editors do not believe that a reader will enjoy a book if he or she has to go more than 200 pages without knowing who is the murderer.  But even with that fault this is a very enjoyable if extremely graphic story, with good characters and some very surprising twists.  By all means read it if you want a good serial killer tale.	2002-02-16
1652897:US	53082946	R1CNGECYOXNP7T	0789451700	509322894	Jerusalem & the Holy Land (Dorling Kindersley Travel Guides)	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Perfect Quick Reference!	This book is a rare treat.  I've had the Dorling Kindersley guide for San Francisco for quite some time now, and have always found it colorful and helpful.  But I am not a frequent traveler, so it never occurred to me that a travel guide might be useful for other things than trip planning.  As usual, it takes a friend to give you something you would never have bought for yourself.  Now that I have this little guide to the Holy Land I don't understand how I ever did without it.<br />These guides are beautifully made for their size, and will outlast most of the disasters that plague the serendipitous.  Illustrations, maps, and diagrams are many and all easy to read, even for one with eyes as bad as mine.  Sections on history intersperse deep dives into the land, its sights and points of interest.  While some of the history is oversimplified, the descriptive information is clear as a bell.  It is impossible to turn more than a few pages without coming up with a list of must sees and things to do.<br />The largest part of the book covers Jerusalem thoroughly (136 pages).  Smaller sections then introduce the Holy Land overall, the Coast and Galilee, the Dead Sea and the Negev, Western Jordan, and the Red Sea and Sinai.  Whew!  Quite a lot!  There are also good references on hotels, restaurants, shops, and entertainment.  It finishes up with a handy survival guide.  All in a moderate size that is perfect for a backpack or tote bag.  My only complaint it that the publisher did not provide any blank pages for notes.<br />So what does a non-traveler such as I want with such a volume.  The truth is that it is a marvelously handy reference for anyone who has an interest in biblical history, archeology, or religion.  Its maps, pictures and very complete index make it useful for getting enough quick information to bring ones reading or research to life.  It would be just as useful for a modern history or politics buff.  What is nice, is that it isn't a weighty, encyclopedic tome, but instead is lightweight enough to carry along with one's research materials.  This is the perfect present, not only for the traveler, but the scholar or dreamer as well., but instead is lightweight enough to carry along with one's research materials.  This is the perfect present, not only for the traveler, but the scholar or dreamer as well.	2002-02-16
1656148:US	53082946	R39G1PMRHU8N76	1889554065	98913751	Yang Yilun's Ingenious Life and Death Puzzles	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Several Steps Past Tesuji	This is the first of two volumes of teaching puzzles put together by Yang Yilun, a well-known Chinese 7 dan player.  Yang has shown a dedicated interest in the game, both as a player as well as a coach and teacher.  After a very strong career in the Shanghai area Yang is now teaching in the United States, with many fortunate students.<br />The puzzles in the books are arranged into 4 categories - Elementary and Junior in the first volume, and Senior and Advanced in the second.  Do not be mislead by the title 'Elementary.'  These are all a cut above the typical tesuji style problem, which often asks only for the best move or trick to use next.  These puzzles all expect the reader to have an instinct for tesuji already developed, and expect some ability to 'read' the problem and think ahead.  Most require that one can lay out a series of moves to exploit a weakness.  Each ensuing section demands stronger skills.  Volume 1, which is sold here, is aimed at amateurs from 10kyu to 5kyu or better. But even a shodan will find the Advanced puzzles a challenge.<br />This is as it should be.  I have been embarrassed by some of the simple problems and lucky with a few of the more difficult, but, overall, these books give a player a very good way to both assess where he or she is as a player and work on the very skills that will carry them to the next level.  The important thing is that one shouldn't treat these as if these as if they were mere brainteasers.  Don't worry if you 'get it' on the first try or not.  Work the puzzle through either mentally or by play, and aim at grasping the principles involved.  Expect to come back time and time again until you feel comfortable that you can recognize a parallel situation and evaluation the options involved.<br />I like the simple, easy to read format of the books quite a bit.  With my eyesight it is a delight to find a book on Go that I do not have to squint about.  Many players will find this book and it's sequel just the thing to help them make sure that they play 1000 different games on the way to shodan, instead of the same one, over and over.  This should be on any players must have list.help them make sure that they play 1000 different games on the way to shodan, instead of the same one, over and over.  This should be on any players must have list.	2002-02-13
1659200:US	53082946	R1S9AM6AK23MPG	039914675X	159657985	The Cat Who Went Up the Creek	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Gossip Disguised	Sooner or later one has to face the fact that Lilian Braun's &quot;Cat Who...&quot; series has long since ceased to be a mystery series.  In fact the mystery parts have only a couple of different formulas.  This is one of the 'Jim Qwilleran goes somewhere with the cats' formula.  The place this time is the Nutcracker Inn in Black Creek.  It is run by Qwill's friends Lori and Nick Bamba who have asked him to stay for a bit and dispel an 'ominous cloud' that Lori senses in the atmosphere.  Since Qwill's long time significant other, Polly Duncan, is off for a vacation Quill undertakes the case.<br />In short order a set of valuable antiques are found that link back to a tragic romantic part in the Inn's past.  The furniture is removed, the cloud breaks and all is well until a body is found in the Black Creek.  One of the Inn's resident's has died mysteriously.  What follows is no surprise.  Quick as a bunny, Jim moves into the dead man's cabin, which enables Koko to take over the case.  Koko discovers some gold nuggets in a shoe, and Jim is convinced that someone is mining in the Black Forest Conservancy.  More mayhem ensues, and only Koko has any handle on what is going on.<br />All of this would make it a mystery story if it took up a significant portion of the book.  But the truth is that, other than some ruminations on Qwilleran's part most of the characters completely ignore the murders in their midst.  This gives the book an odd atmosphere, almost as if the reader had wandered into an insane asylum.  For some time the strength of Braun's writing has been all the humorous characters she introduces, Qwill's little tidbit's of writing, and the antics of Koko and Yum Yum.  There is plenty of this, right down to a choreographed barroom brawl; it just never quite comes together.<br />There are many interesting tidbits, including a potential rival for Polly, so the story is still basic 'Cat Who...' stuff.  I suppose there comes a time in every series where the stories have been doing the same thing for so long that the writer does a bit of a walkabout, and this, unfortunately is the case here.  If you are so fond of this series that a rather vague mystery and sketchy characters won't put you off, then this tale will work for you.  But the new reader is best off starting earlier in the series with meatier books.  Although no one would ever describe Braun's cozies as heavyweight material.ave been doing the same thing for so long that the writer does a bit of a walkabout, and this, unfortunately is the case here.  If you are so fond of this series that a rather vague mystery and sketchy characters won't put you off, then this tale will work for you.  But the new reader is best off starting earlier in the series with meatier books.  Although no one would ever describe Braun's cozies as heavyweight material.	2002-02-11
1659290:US	53082946	RE0CR0OA0RFIF	0451410211	781245675	Some Survive	Books	4	7	7	N	N	None Are Unchanged	In Los Angeles Celeste Munro, who makes her living as a high priced sexual partner and part time thief, decides it was time to leave California and maintain a low profile.  And in Wichita, Kansas, a police detective on temporary leave is asked to see if he can track her down.  Out of this material James Girard builds a complex and chilling suspense story.  One full of haunting characters whose interactions reflect the confused and often heartless state of the human mind.<br />Floyd Lassiter is a police detective who is becoming increasingly subject to temporal lobe seizures.  Because of a recent episode involving an assistant district attorney, he has been temporarily relieved of duty.  While he has kept his problem a secret, Floyd knows that it is only a matter of time before he will no longer be able to operate as a police officer, no longer be able to do what he loves.  Thus, he is relieved when Loomis, his chief, calls him in to talk about Celeste.  She is believed to have returned to the Wichita area and the police have been asked to help with the case.  With no on duty investigator available, Lassiter is recruited for the task.<br />Lassiter's investigation uncovers layer after layer of subterfuge.  Thin clues lead him back though records and memories to a young prostitute, one who changes identities as needed.  But Celeste and Lassiter are not the only actors in this drama.  Jes Wellington, a professional writer, Zach Vincent, a computer consultant, and Jerry Majors, Floyd's partner all play major parts in this tale along with many others.  Even as bits of the truth are gradually surface, other mysteries are uncovered.  Gradually the book evolves from pure detection to thriller.<br />This is a noir tale, where all of the characters are exposed to events that will either change or destroy them.  Lassiter's worst enemy is his own mind.  His mental state unravels and fragments as the story progresses.  Girard reflects this not just in his portrayal of the detective, but in the very style of the novel itself.  The book is a continuous flow of points of view, as narration switches from one character to another, almost at random.  The author is capable of gemlike moments of narrative and characterization, but never allows a sense of continuity to develop.  As such, the reader often feels imprisoned in Lassiter's mental state - suffering from the same syndrome.<br />To be honest, I found this wearing.  As the book moves along, it becomes clear that there is no central character.  This device kept me from becoming as involved as I would like to have been, and left me trying to juggle too many facts and subplots.  If one does not have the time and energy to remain focused on the story it is very easy to lose the thread from reading to reading.  This is a matter of personal taste and won't bother everyone equally.  Girard deserves credit for writing a story in exactly the style I like least and still managing to keep my attention as well as he did.  While I found it slow going, others will enjoy the many polished facets of the telling.&lt;ctive, but in the very style of the novel itself.  The book is a continuous flow of points of view, as narration switches from one character to another, almost at random.  The author is capable of gemlike moments of narrative and characterization, but never allows a sense of continuity to develop.  As such, the reader often feels imprisoned in Lassiter's mental state - suffering from the same syndrome.  <br />To be honest, I found this wearing.  As the book moves along, it becomes clear that there is no central character.  This device kept me from becoming as involved as I would like to have been, and left me trying to juggle too many facts and subplots.  If one does not have the time and energy to remain focused on the story it is very easy to lose the thread from reading to reading.  This is a matter of personal taste and won't bother everyone equally.  Girard deserves credit for writing a story in exactly the style I like least and still managing to keep my attention as well as he did.  While I found it slow going, others will enjoy the many polished facets of the telling.<	2002-02-11
1660048:US	53082946	RC5VQ4AH89XMD	0521223520	272506476	The Cambridge History of Japan, Vol. 1: Ancient Japan (Volume 1)	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	The First 99,000 Years	'Ancient Japan' is the initial volume in 'The Cambridge History of Japan.'  As such it is a stunning effort to collect and organize the results of recent discovery about of Japan's early history.  What surprised me from the beginning of the book was how much of Japan's early history has only been discovered in the last half of the 20th Century.  In that period of time archeology and scholarship has added vast amounts of information to the story, dispelling some myths and affirming others.<br />The format is the classical form of a series of chapters written by experts in the field.  Delmer M. Brown, who is Professor Emeritus at the Center for Japanese Studies (UC Berkeley) has done an excellent job of bringing the work together and making this first volume work as a whole, including writing a good piece of the text himself.  Eight other writers contribute, with sections on the Jomon, Yayoi, Yamato, Asuka (century of reform) and Nara periods, ending with 784 CE.  Collateral chapters on Japan's relations with the continent, Kami worship and Buddhism, Nara economic and social institutions, and culture are also included to fill out the overall picture.  The religious and cultural studies I found particularly informative.<br />When a book attempts to cover this much material, the pace of exposition is often overwhelming.  Brown manages to keep this from being extreme, but it would be dishonest to describe 'Ancient Japan' as a leisurely armchair read.  On the other hand, it is the perfect vehicle for forming a mental picture of the periods under study, and identifying additional sources for further reading.  As such, the footnotes, citations, and index/glossary are invaluable.  In addition, the writing is all in a competent academic style that never bores, even when it fails to excite.  Despite the steep price this volume is an important addition to a scholarly library.  I am looking forward to the rest of the series.	2002-02-10
1661354:US	53082946	RJIFP4EFWMCN	0061043494	769540204	Gaudy Night (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	5	126	136	N	N	Gaudate Discipuli	'Gaudy Night,' Dorothy Sayers' penultimate novel in the Lord Peter Wimsey series, was originally intended to be the last.  Unlike the rest of the series, it is Harriet Vane's tale, first and last.  Lord Peter does not appear in person until the last third of the story, when he takes his place as romantic lead and solver of all things mysterious.  Sayer's takes this opportunity to both reveal unexpected depths to Miss Vane's character and create a remarkable elegy of her own memories of Oxford, where she took highest honors in a world made by and meant for the male sex.<br />Harriet returns to Shrewsbury College to take part in the annual Gaudy night, something a bit like our own college reunions, not quite sure what to expect.  While renewing her friendship with both her old classmates and instructors, she brushes against the start of a mystery when she finds some very unpleasant notes expressed a vitriolic hatred for the denizens of the college.  Brushing it aside as an isolated occurrence, she returns to the festivities without realizing that she has seen is only the tip of the iceberg.<br />Several months later, Harriet finds herself called back to Shrewsbury by the Dean.  The few isolated occurrences had become an onslaught and the school desperately needed help in resolving the problem without any adverse publicity.  Miss Vane, a successful mystery writer, a survivor of a murder charge, and a friend of the esteemed Lord Peter Wimsey, seemed the ideal person to come to the aid of the Senior Common Room.  The idea of a woman's college was still newfangled to Oxford and a scandal could become a major setback.  What Harriet found was a steadily escalating attack on the sanity and safety of the college on apparent waged by a devious and hate filled mind.<br />The tale is a psychological thriller, told against the backdrop of Oxford and the University.  Sayers fills the book with loving (and sometimes not so loving) details of academic life and its foibles.  Her style often mimics Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy and the novels of a century past, providing a comedy of manners as counterpoint to the grim tale of a mind gone awry.  Distraught students and instructors alternate with appearances by Wimsey's madcap nephew and countless caricatures, one right after another.<br />'Gaudy Night' is a tour de force, coupling some of Sayer's finest writing with ideas that were novel and controversial when the book made it's first appearance.  It is a unique story from the first disturbing note to the last surprising twist and turn in the relationship between Lord Peter and Harriet Vane.  And one that is very, very well told.  Whether this novel or 'The Nine Tailors' is the better novel will be argued forever, but there is no question that 'Gaudy Night'  is one of the best from a mystery writer who stands at the head of her class.e often mimics Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy and the novels of a century past, providing a comedy of manners as counterpoint to the grim tale of a mind gone awry.  Distraught students and instructors alternate with appearances by Wimsey's madcap nephew and countless caricatures, one right after another.<br />'Gaudy Night' is a tour de force, coupling some of Sayer's finest writing with ideas that were novel and controversial when the book made it's first appearance.  It is a unique story from the first disturbing note to the last surprising twist and turn in the relationship between Lord Peter and Harriet Vane.  And one that is very, very well told.  Whether this novel or 'The Nine Tailors' is the better novel will be argued forever, but there is no question that 'Gaudy Night'  is one of the best from a mystery writer who stands at the head of her class.	2002-02-09
1662659:US	53082946	R3DL7RFQAATG9P	4906574130	90113599	Life and Death (Elementary Go Series)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	It's Alive!!	One of the first mountains a beginning Go player has to climb is deciding when a group of pieces has a living shape and what do to get a group into shape.  Until this is mastered one is playing 'accidental' Go.  In other words, lacking a tactical target, issues of life and death are settled without a clear picture of the desired effect.  Which is why early play at the Go board often feels like someone just pulled the rug out from under you.<br />No surprise then that there are many books on tactical play and analysis.  James Davies' \\"Life and Death\\" is a very neat volume that organizes itself around shape and provides the basic proverbs that will help a player get a good start.  Only experience will completely demystify life and death, but this book provides the kind of lessons that help a players bootstrap themselves up to a respectable game.<br />Each chapter is short and to the point, with several examples and a number of carefully thought out problems and status analyses.  Since the focus of the book is not to test the player's IQ but to provide information in digestible pieces the material is easily accessible, which is not always the case with Go books.  Lots of additional review problems are also provided.<br />The advantage to this entire series is not only the transparency of the lessons, but the author's careful adherence to a size and format that makes this a truly portable book.  Go, especially in it's most minimalist form (a small magnetic set, for example) is every bit as backpack friendly as checkers and is much more fascinating.  \\"Life and Death\\" is an excellent companion for the serendipitous traveler.	2002-02-08
1668452:US	53082946	R2RFB4POPE432I	006019832X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	An Intricate Chess Game	Lawrence Block and Robert Parker are two of my favorite mystery authors, and share many similarities.  Their detectives, Matt Scudder and Spenser are 'fixers', rather than pure detectives or simple toughs.  They share a taste for wise-cracks and dry wit, have similar relationships with women, and are men of action.  Between the two authors, a whole genre exists that no one else has successfully invaded.  I sometimes think of it as the tough guy noir cozy.  Although that is a bit of an overstatement.<br />I do like Block's work a little better, though.  Primarily because Matt Scudder is the stronger, more finely developed character.  I find his progression from alcoholism to sobriety and his attitude about himself refreshing.  He does not preach, but he tries his best to live according to his ethics, and succeeds for the most part.  The characters that surround him also seem to be a bit more attractive because they reflect the same basic integrity.  Block's stories also often have a darker more chilling coloration than Parker's, who sometimes puts more energy into caustic humor than into the plot itself.  And sometimes Block's plots take unexpected and satisfying turns into new directions.<br />'Hope to Die' is such a case in point.  When a married couple who happened to attend the same society event as Matt and Elaine Scudder are brutally murdered in a theft, Matt is intrigued.  But the case is quickly solved when the thieves are found dead.  One killed by the other, and the other a suicide, with the evidence in hand.  But the couple's niece and daughter are not completely comfortable with the resolution, and so Scudder finds himself, and his sidekick T.J., drawn into an investigation into an apparently closed case.  They carefully pick out the conflicting strands of the web, but everything is circumstantial, requiring an almost Holmesian effort to get glimpses of the truth.<br />If it was not for the unexpected appearance of narrative from the viewpoint of a killer, the reader would be completely justified in thinking that Scudder's imagination had gotten the better of him.  But Block makes such deft use of a sociopathic killer's reflections that the reader is kept completely engaged and rooting for Matt and T.J. as they reconstruct the murders from ghosts and shadows.  While we know before Matt does that the original murders were the work of a mastermind, Block manages to give so little away that the suspense and mystery continue right through to the end.<br />This injection of a second viewpoint is novel in a Matt Scudder novel, but it is done so perfectly if feels like a regular feature.  The device works beautifully to keep the plot moving without the fragmentation and confusion that result when multiple viewpoints are poorly used.  I don't think I have ever seen it done better in modern detective fiction.  Block minimizes all distractions (at the cost of some of his usually exceptional characterizations), keeping the reader focused on the comparative workings of Scudder's own analytical mind and the machinations of his insane opponent.<br />A subplot about the sudden death of Scudder's ex-wife and his relationships with his sons is introduced and allowed to run its course, but seems purely peripheral to the main plot.  This and a few other threads lead me to believe that this tale is not completely done and that we can expect a continuation.  If so it will be another unexpected deviation from formula.  If Block has set out to prove that he can still be fresh after 25 years of writing the stories of Matthew Scudder, he has done an admirable job.  I think even the most jaded fans will enjoy this book.  Newcomers need have no fear.  Block has a talent for providing just enough background to prevent any significant discomfort from starting a series at its latest volume., the reader would be completely justified in thinking that Scudder's imagination had gotten the better of him.  But Block makes such deft use of a sociopathic killer's reflections that the reader is kept completely engaged and rooting for Matt and T.J. as they reconstruct the murders from ghosts and shadows.  While we know before Matt does that the original murders were the work of a mastermind, Block manages to give so little away that the suspense and mystery continue right through to the end.<br />This injection of a second viewpoint is novel in a Matt Scudder novel, but it is done so perfectly if feels like a regular feature.  The device works beautifully to keep the plot moving without the fragmentation and confusion that result when multiple viewpoints are poorly used.  I don't think I have ever seen it done better in modern detective fiction.  Block minimizes all distractions (at the cost of some of his usually exceptional characterizations), keeping the reader focused on the comparative workings of Scudder's own analytical mind and the machinations of his insane opponent.<br />A subplot about the sudden death of Scudder's ex-wife and his relationships with his sons is introduced and allowed to run its course, but seems purely peripheral to the main plot.  This and a few other threads lead me to believe that this tale is not completely done and that we can expect a continuation.  If so it will be another unexpected deviation from formula.  If Block has set out to prove that he can still be fresh after 25 years of writing the stories of Matthew Scudder, he has done an admirable job.  I think even the most jaded fans will enjoy this book.  Newcomers need have no fear.  Block has a talent for providing just enough background to prevent any significant discomfort from starting a series at its latest volume.	2002-02-03
1668628:US	53082946	RJSGJXRDKEIJL	0759605130	252276833	Sherlock Holmes: The Adventure of the Dead Rabbits Society	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Needs a Bit More Hare	This tale finds Sherlock Holmes ensconced in the Dead Rabbit's Society a brasher version of the British gentleman's club.  'Dead Rabbit,' in turn of the century New York patois, means 'best opponent.'  I admit it is an odd name for what is supposed to be a fashionable establishment.  Although, given the description of the food, the name may be apt for a different reason.  Lest I forget, Holmes is only occasionally Holmes in this story.  He is on that infinitely long hegira that lasted from Reichenbach Falls to his eventual reappearance in England, and has chosen Simon Hawkes as his nom de detection.<br />The story opens dramatically with a woman's suicidal plunge into the Hudson and then switches abruptly to the public rooms of the Dead Rabbit's Society.  There we find Holmes/Hawkes discussing the recent death with George Hammond, a Rabbit of long standing.  Their conversation is interrupted by a brief confrontation between Franklin and Charles Dunmore that enables our detective to once again reveal his scintillating analytical abilities, which barely stop short of estimating the brothers' respective bank balances.  Hammond is appropriately awestruck.  Little does Holmes realize that, in short order, Franklin Dunmore is about to become a client.<br />A week later, attempts on Franklin's life suddenly begin.  He turns to Hammond for help, fearing that these efforts are from his brother's hand.  Hammond, in turn, recommends that Franklin seek help from Holmes.  Despite being busy saving the Police Commissioner from blackmail, Holmes has a flash of inspiration and generously offers to help.  While Holmes discovers much, he is unprepared for the swiftness of events.  Death comes early in this case and proceeds with nightmarish violence.  Holmes finds himself at his wit's end.<br />Phillip Carraher is a promising writer, but I found the story a bit unsatisfactory.  As indicated earlier, Holmes, disguised as Hawkes, and without Watson, never seems to settle completely into his role.  He behaves atypically, both in the nature of his disguise and in an unusual tendency to reveal more than he should.  If he is attempting concealment from the remains of Moriarty's gang, why he would then intentionally make a point of aiding the police.  After all, his modus operandi is well known on both continents.  If the gang was really intent on getting even with Holmes he would be singularly easy to come across.<br />Less tolerable, the plot devices chosen to move the action along are too tranparent, and diffuse most of the mystery.  The plot is thin, and it is too easy for the reader to get ahead of Holmes.  The ending so is unlike Holmes that Carraher actually has Watson remark on it to Holmes on its retelling.  Characterization, however, is quite good, and the writer does a good if slightly over-dramatic imitation of Watson as narrator after the fact.<br />If you like fairly traditional Holmesian fare (a la Val Andrews), I think that you will find the Dead Rabbits Society a journeymanlike tale, short but satisfactory.  If your tastes run to more ambitious additions to the canon I would suggest first looking to Larry Millett and Laurie R. King.nto his role.  He behaves atypically, both in the nature of his disguise and in an unusual tendency to reveal more than he should.  If he is attempting concealment from the remains of Moriarty's gang, why he would then intentionally make a point of aiding the police.  After all, his modus operandi is well known on both continents.  If the gang was really intent on getting even with Holmes he would be singularly easy to come across.<br />Less tolerable, the plot devices chosen to move the action along are too tranparent, and diffuse most of the mystery.  The plot is thin, and it is too easy for the reader to get ahead of Holmes.  The ending so is unlike Holmes that Carraher actually has Watson remark on it to Holmes on its retelling.  Characterization, however, is quite good, and the writer does a good if slightly over-dramatic imitation of Watson as narrator after the fact.  <br />If you like fairly traditional Holmesian fare (a la Val Andrews), I think that you will find the Dead Rabbits Society a journeymanlike tale, short but satisfactory.  If your tastes run to more ambitious additions to the canon I would suggest first looking to Larry Millett and Laurie R. King.	2002-02-03
1675949:US	53082946	RZDADMYHB21MO	158345442X	300858019	Burn	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Death From Unknown Causes	The setting is in the near future, in the same darkened, grim world that provides the background for Phillip Dick's 'Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\\" as well as the stories of William Gibson and Neil Stephenson.  It is a place of cities soured in the poisons of their own creation, hidden from the sun by dark clouds of pollution and the effects of global warming.  The food chain has been destroyed, and a single piece of natural wood costs a fortune.  People who can escape run to artificial island communities in the oceans, where it is still possible to make reckless use of the remaining environment.<br />This is a world of haves and have nots, with only a frail shell of the middle class left.  A single corporation, Expedite, has brought StellarNet, a virtual replacement for the Internet, into existence.  By its control of this pervasive media, Expedite has become the dominant force in the world.  A harsh and unyielding corporation ruled by clones, with connections everywhere, it is the Dark Tower of this age.  In this bleak future four people suddenly and unexpectedly burst into flames.  The diagnosis - spontaneous human combustion.  The police rule them accidents and fail to investigate.<br />But Frank Cage, a freelance detective, does.  Hired by the daughter of James Gild, one of the victims, he finds nothing but layers of deception.  His first clash with Expedite, years ago, cost him his career and his fianc&eacute;.  Now he grows more and more apprehensive as he finds one hint after another that points to his old nemesis.  He is joined by Jonny Cache, who was originally an automated sex toy purchased by James Gild.  A software genius, he reprogrammed and enhanced her until she achieved artificial intelligence.  Jonny left Gild to take up a life as a net runner, but now she is back, seeking revenge.  Helping Jonny and Cage out are the binary Yin and Yang Angelique and the NewSchool Grrls.<br />The story starts slowly as Lyons builds his world with obsessive detail, one environmental sin after another.  Without doubt the author has a major environmentalist agenda, and for a time this takes over the writing.  I am sympathetic to the issues, but the switch between normal narrative and sudden activist eloquence often comes without warning.  Once this is past, Lyons shows a strong flair for narrative prose and proceeds almost non-stop to the end.  Character development is better than it often is in this genre, but only Jonny, the android, is completely fleshed out.  Others characters often seem barely fleshed in or are painted with quick, brittle brushstrokes.<br />While the book has a noir flavor, it is not really a noir book.  It lacks the inexorable, negative vision that infects its peers.  Or the shattering revelations that turn heroism into hopeless posturing.  Lyons' sharp, staccato styling is reminiscent of Raymond Chandler, but his strong beliefs prevent him from taking the last steps into hopelessness.  I find this a refreshing change.  It would be very easy to give this book a five star rating.  But, as a writer, Lyons needs to do some polishing to be completely effective.  I hope he continues writing and I am reserving the 5th star for the story I believe is still to come.  Without doubt this is a great first novel, and deserves to succeed.one environmental sin after another.  Without doubt the author has a major environmentalist agenda, and for a time this takes over the writing.  I am sympathetic to the issues, but the switch between normal narrative and sudden activist eloquence often comes without warning.  Once this is past, Lyons shows a strong flair for narrative prose and proceeds almost non-stop to the end.  Character development is better than it often is in this genre, but only Jonny, the android, is completely fleshed out.  Others characters often seem barely fleshed in or are painted with quick, brittle brushstrokes.<br />While the book has a noir flavor, it is not really a noir book.  It lacks the inexorable, negative vision that infects its peers.  Or the shattering revelations that turn heroism into hopeless posturing.  Lyons' sharp, staccato styling is reminiscent of Raymond Chandler, but his strong beliefs prevent him from taking the last steps into hopelessness.  I find this a refreshing change.  It would be very easy to give this book a five star rating.  But, as a writer, Lyons needs to do some polishing to be completely effective.  I hope he continues writing and I am reserving the 5th star for the story I believe is still to come.  Without doubt this is a great first novel, and deserves to succeed.	2002-01-28
1679185:US	53082946	R3HO1FTQJME4BL	4906574157	149347282	Endgame	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Bringing It All Home	Like Chess, Go is divided into opening, middle, and endgames.  Unlike Chess, which is played on a smaller amount of real estate, the early phases of Go are filled with signs and portents, with each player making gestures and claims to not quite specified territory.  The game moves from the initial claim and counter-claim to conflict and struggle until territories are defined and lines are drawn.  Now comes the endgame, where all the initial positioning and saber rattling comes down-to hand-to-hand reality.<br />Games are won and lost here.  Mistakes have immediate penalties, and a moment's loss of focus can waste a brilliant strategy.  Not only must a player have an intuitive sense of tesuji - the right move, but a strong feeling for the flow and scope of the game.  The player who can maintain sente, who can remain on the attack the longest has the best chance of winning.  Part of this is an understanding of the value of each move.  And this requires the ability to fight on many fronts at one time.<br />Mastering the endgame is often a struggle.  Many books have been written to aid the developing player begin to understand the principles involved.  One book I found very helpful, and still often go through is a part of the Elementary Go Series, &quot;The Endgame&quot; by Tomoko Ogawa and James Davies.  The book introduces the concepts at an easily digestible rate, and provides countless games, examples, and problems to help make it real.  All of this in a small format that can almost be tucked in a pocket, to be read as time permits.<br />Here in the United States, where it is often difficult to get to play enough competitive games, such books are the keys to improving one's game.  From the outside the endgame often appears to be the dullest part of the Go game, but it is the most satisfying to master, since it makes one a winner at this complex, deceptive game.	2002-01-26
1681082:US	53082946	R1RFEH0CX056PF	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Most Satisfactory!	'Deadly Decisions,' the predecessor to 'Fatal Voyage' was something of a disappointment when compared to Kathy Reichs' first two novels about Temperance Brennan.  Too much attention was paid to family and emotional problems, too much of a 'pity me' attitude, and, to be blunt, a very monotonic plot.  Reichs' writing carried the book through, but if the stories would have continued in that pattern the series would have suffered greatly.  One Patricia Cornwell is enough.<br />This tale, which starts out with Tempe's arrival at a horrific plane crash in the mountains of North Carolina, is something else again.  Not only is she writing much more like her old style, Reichs has also picked up the pace and cleaned up some of her characterization considerably.  Tempe's involvement in the crash site as a forensic anthropologist assigned to the gruesome task of piecing together the remains of 88 victims is a fascinating study.  Many of the victims are college soccer players, and the loss of life brings an almost overwhelming sense of grim tragedy to the tale.<br />To add to the mystery, one of Tempe's walks around the crash site precipitates her into a confrontation with coyotes over a human foot.  Tempe is rescued by her old friend, and almost lover, Montreal detective Andrew Ryan.  Ryan is in North Carolina because his partner, Jean Bertrand, was on the flight escorting a criminal back to Canada.  Surrounded by tragedy Tempe and Det. Ryan find themselves thrown together in an uncomfortable intimacy.  One which provides most of the humor in this macabre story.  The foot, in the meantime, has it's own mystery - it seems to belong to no one who was on the plane.<br />Unexpectedly, Tempe finds herself being hounded by Parker Davenport, the Lt. Governor, and Larke Tyrell, the medical examiner.  Soon her only friends at the site are Ryan, a FBI agent, and Sheriff Lucy Crowe, who has no affection for Davenport and a great deal of savvy on her own.  Investigations into the origin of the 'extra' foot trigger a reaction that verges on attempted character assassination.  Finally, Tempe is banned from the crash site.  Rather than simply go home, Tempe decides to fight back, and launches her own investigation.  With amazing results.<br />The interplay between the techniques used in solving the plane crash and the knowledge that Temperance brings to bear on the solitary limb is fascinating.  For those who read forensic mysteries because they love the details, 'Fatal Voyage' is a great treat.  The gradual unfolding of the rest of the plot, with its historical and political themes is done seamlessly, without introducing any unnecessary complication.  And the rich characterization is a surprise bonus, as Tempe confronts some of her own issues head on, pointing to further developments.  We can expect Andrew Ryan to reappear, and I have to hope that Sheriff Crowe also becomes a regular.  Reichs has outdone herself.of the 'extra' foot trigger a reaction that verges on attempted character assassination.  Finally, Tempe is banned from the crash site.  Rather than simply go home, Tempe decides to fight back, and launches her own investigation.  With amazing results.<br />The interplay between the techniques used in solving the plane crash and the knowledge that Temperance brings to bear on the solitary limb is fascinating.  For those who read forensic mysteries because they love the details, 'Fatal Voyage' is a great treat.  The gradual unfolding of the rest of the plot, with its historical and political themes is done seamlessly, without introducing any unnecessary complication.  And the rich characterization is a surprise bonus, as Tempe confronts some of her own issues head on, pointing to further developments.  We can expect Andrew Ryan to reappear, and I have to hope that Sheriff Crowe also becomes a regular.  Reichs has outdone herself.	2002-01-24
1682009:US	53082946	RBUF4HDP363SY	0812564545	168651155	A Mystery of Errors	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Much Ado About Job Hunting	When young Symington Smythe discovers that his father has bankrupted himself trying to climb the social ladder, he decides to pursue his dream of a career as an actor.  In 16th century Britain becoming an actor meant going to London, so off Smythe went.  After being robbed so often that the last highwayman took pity on him and gave him enough for dinner, the young man finally stumbled into the Hawk and Mouse which is so crowded he is forced to share a room with a stranger.  Not just any strange, but Will Shakespeare himself, also off to London to make a start in the theater - as a poet.  In short order the men become fast friends and travel the rest of the way together.<br />Once in the town Smythe (now renamed Tuck by Shakespeare) and the young bard have a bit of luck and meet Sir William Worley and Kit Marlowe in the midst of a brawl.  When the smoke clears Worley offers Tuck and Will the opportunity of positions at the Queen's Men Theater.  Well, 'positions' is a bit of an overstatement.  Actually, they are given jobs as hostlers, attending the horses of the audience.  Tuck and Will are undaunted, sure that time will favor them (assuming they can get rid of the smell of stable.<br />On the other side of town, in a much better neighborhood, lives Elizabeth Darcie.  She discovers she has a major problem.  Her father has decided to marry her off to gain preferment and a chance at a title.  Elizabeth, who is quite independent for this age, is outraged.  Prepared to do anything to put off her suitor, she is pleasantly surprised when her proposed husband confides to her that he loves another and has no desire to wed her.  Or does he?  The next day he appears to press his suit, and on the next he is stabbed and dies at her feet.  And then he reappears once more.  All of this panics Elizabeth and catapults her into the arms of Tuck, who is determined to investigate, despite warnings from Will and the other actors.  In short order the plot becomes as complex as one of Shakespeare's own and every bit as exciting.<br />I was attracted to 'A Mystery of Errors' because I am familiar with Simon Hawkes other works, which are primarily science fiction and fantasy.  Thus, I really didn't know quite what to expect.  Hawke has never shown any interest in historical mystery stories or the stately prose of Elizabethan rhetoric.  The book begins slowly, as Hawke works at the construction of his setting in 16th century England.  Which is no small task.  The slow pace of the first chapters, combined with an excessive use of flower speech put me off a bit and I feared that Hawke was too far out of his element.<br />Then, as they say, a miracle happened.  The action and intrigue of the plot picked up, the characters lost their stiffness, and everything took on life.  I cannot testify to the 'historicity' of the book, but it presents a believable England complete with spies and retired pirates.  Thus I found the book a light weight, extremely enjoyable, page-turner.  Not quite a farce, but a solid comedy in the Shakespearean style without the burden of iambic pentameter.  I also enjoyed the little the countless tidbits of Shakespearean lore that wander in an out of the story, playing their part as puns and puzzles.  This is a book appropriate to Shakespeare lovers of all ages.  I believe you will find it 'as you like it.'kespeare's own and every bit as exciting.<br />I was attracted to 'A Mystery of Errors' because I am familiar with Simon Hawkes other works, which are primarily science fiction and fantasy.  Thus, I really didn't know quite what to expect.  Hawke has never shown any interest in historical mystery stories or the stately prose of Elizabethan rhetoric.  The book begins slowly, as Hawke works at the construction of his setting in 16th century England.  Which is no small task.  The slow pace of the first chapters, combined with an excessive use of flower speech put me off a bit and I feared that Hawke was too far out of his element.<br />Then, as they say, a miracle happened.  The action and intrigue of the plot picked up, the characters lost their stiffness, and everything took on life.  I cannot testify to the 'historicity' of the book, but it presents a believable England complete with spies and retired pirates.  Thus I found the book a light weight, extremely enjoyable, page-turner.  Not quite a farce, but a solid comedy in the Shakespearean style without the burden of iambic pentameter.  I also enjoyed the little the countless tidbits of Shakespearean lore that wander in an out of the story, playing their part as puns and puzzles.  This is a book appropriate to Shakespeare lovers of all ages.  I believe you will find it 'as you like it.'	2002-01-24
1683841:US	53082946	R1J1CC50NV9OUY	1585671789	513111776	Freddy and the Perilous Adventure	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	The Ducks Lead the Way	When Freddy, in a sudden burst of irrepressible impishness manages to convince Emma and Alice, the Bean Farm ducks, to go for a balloon ride, he little expects that he too will have to take part in the adventure.  But Mr. Golcher, the balloonist is every bit as sly as Freddy and, in no time at all Freddy has agreed not only to give a speech, but to ride with the ducks.  What he also didn't realize until he was on the way up was that Mr. Golcher was staying behind, and that our pig, along with the duck sisters were on their own.  When it turns out that the balloon has a faulty valve our not quite intrepid adventurers discover that they are in for an extended voyage.<br />All is not lost by any means.  Freddy talks a friendly bald eagle into bringing them a food basket from the Bean kitchen, they weather a stormy night, and see some splendid scenery.  Eventually, as all things do, the balloon descends enough for Freddy to get it down.  Freddy leaves the ducks with the balloon and, after borrowing a tuxedo from a scarecrow, heads off to investigate.  He soon discovers that the worst has happened.  Mr. Golcher, infuriated at the loss of his balloon has accused Freddy of stealing it and the police of several counties are trying to capture the pig and bring him to justice.  It will take all of Freddy's vast imagination and the help of both the Bean animals and the entire Boomschmidt Circus to get him out of trouble.<br />The reader will find many familiar characters here.  In addition to the denizens of the Bean Farm and the Circus, Emma and Alice's Uncle Wesley manages to return.  In addition, there are parachuting mice, somersaulting ducks and an ostrich ticket taker.  Nor can one leave out the noble eagle, Breckenridge, who inspires a whole burst of poetry from Freddy.  By the time the book reaches its climax the reader will be completely entranced as animals display character and style that we lowly humans can only imitate.<br />One of the nicest things about Walter Brooks' world is that the inevitable moral lessons are demonstrated rather than taught.  And demonstrated in a delightful, ingenious way.  In 1942 Brooks uses two timid lady ducks to demonstrate that adventuring is not just for male chauvinists and that having the courage to stand up for your rights keeps bullies at bay.  Freddy's honesty saves the day at the end, and, as always, the importance of friends gets a good plug.  Best of all is that the right things to do are also fun to do.  Freddy is the pig for all ages.Brooks' world is that the inevitable moral lessons are demonstrated rather than taught.  And demonstrated in a delightful, ingenious way.  In 1942 Brooks uses two timid lady ducks to demonstrate that adventuring is not just for male chauvinists and that having the courage to stand up for your rights keeps bullies at bay.  Freddy's honesty saves the day at the end, and, as always, the importance of friends gets a good plug.  Best of all is that the right things to do are also fun to do.  Freddy is the pig for all ages.	2002-01-22
1687431:US	53082946	R3ORCRWSSQLZ5L	0967822114	110683205	Never Burn a Witch: A Rowan Gant Investigation	Books	3	24	26	N	Y	Welcome Back to the Middle Ages	Fresh from the previous volume, 'Harm None,' Rowan Gant is once again drawn into a police investigation by his good friend Benjamin Storm.  As a public practitioner of Wicca in St. Louis, Gant often provides support when a case seems to have occult overtones.  The first young woman is tortured and thrown out of her apartment, the second burnt in a public park.  In each case symbols are found and a bible is left at the site with a marked quote.<br />Gant quickly recognizes that truth, which is confirmed by his psychic reading of the dead.  A witch hunter is loose in the city, one that uses the medieval 'Malleus Maleficarum' as his manual, just like the original Inquisition.  This time Rowan is warned of the deaths by the appearance of painful stigma on his body, shaped like the chi rho symbol of Christ.  The murders proceed almost inexorably, claiming not just witches, but the innocent as well.<br />First the killer hunts the members of a coven, but when Rowan's investigations start to interfere, the St. Louis witch is added to the list of potential victims.  Rowan now must hunt the hunter if he is to survive.  In single minded pursuit he seems to loose his grasp on his own powers and repeatedly finds himself in conflict with his wife Felicity and his friend Benjamin.  The witch seems compelled to reach the final confrontation in the worst possible fashion.<br />While quite readable, I found 'Never Burn a Witch' something of a disappointment after 'Harm None.'  The latter showed quite a bit of promise, but the new book is suffering from a slight case of 'sophomore slump.'  I found the book very repetitious in its early going - murder, crime scene, psychic vision, murder, crime scene, etc.  As there is a lot of violence in this book this goes on for too long, and with very little relief, comic or otherwise.  Almost no attention is paid to the killer, and progress to the ending is unsurprising and almost inexorable.<br />Gant, portrayed as a man of intelligence and integrity, inevitably seems to lose all his wisdom under pressure.  And if I was his wife, I'd divorce him.  He keeps telling her he won't do things and then promptly goes out and does them.  My final gripe, and the worst, is that other than the psychic visitations with the murder victims and the appearance of the stigmata there really isn't a lot of 'witchiness' to the story.  What occult is offered is mostly in the service of furthering the violence of the narrative rather than enriching the plot.<br />The story line seems to indicate that another volume is in the offing.  If so, I hope M.R. Sellars takes the opportunity to deepen the dimensions of the plot a bit.  He does have real writing talent, and this could become a very successful series.  The book is really better than three stars, but is simply not up to its four star predecessor.integrity, inevitably seems to lose all his wisdom under pressure.  And if I was his wife, I'd divorce him.  He keeps telling her he won't do things and then promptly goes out and does them.  My final gripe, and the worst, is that other than the psychic visitations with the murder victims and the appearance of the stigmata there really isn't a lot of 'witchiness' to the story.  What occult is offered is mostly in the service of furthering the violence of the narrative rather than enriching the plot.<br />The story line seems to indicate that another volume is in the offing.  If so, I hope M.R. Sellars takes the opportunity to deepen the dimensions of the plot a bit.  He does have real writing talent, and this could become a very successful series.  The book is really better than three stars, but is simply not up to its four star predecessor.	2002-01-20
1694403:US	53082946	R37Y43YSXDAEV0	0515090506	470032178	The Cat Who Played Brahms	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Koko Takes The Turkey	Qwilleran is feeling dissatisfied with his job at the Daily Fluxion.  Despite numerous efforts on his part to return to crime reporting, the managing editor persists in keeping Qwill assigned to the feature page.  Finally, he decides that he needs a long break, a sabbatical where he can take the time to think things over, maybe do some independent writing.  Thus, it will come as no surprise to loyal readers that &quot;The Cat Who Played Brahms&quot; finds Jim, Koko, and Yum Yum making their longest move ever, 400 miles north to Pickaxe City where his 'Aunt' Fanny Klingenschoen lives and has made a summer cabin available to him.<br />Qwilleran's dreams of an idyllic vacation are quickly shattered.  Footsteps on the roof, laughter from the beach, and eerie sounds from the underbrush all haunt his nights.  Koko the high-tech cat figures out how to play the cassette player.  And Qwilleran, a died-in-the-wool city boy finds that living without locks on the doors leaves him perpetually nervous.  Of course, inevitably, on his first trip fishing he overhears a violent argument and then hooks a mysterious corpse.  One that just as quickly disappears back into the depths.<br />Qwill knows something illegal is going on, but is unable to pinpoint it.  It is divers plundering wrecks from the lake?  Or, perhaps, illicit smuggling.  Then again, it may be a fiendish plot aimed at Aunt Fanny, who seems to run most of Pickaxe.  No one seems to have a clue.  Jim and his visiting friend Rosemary (from 'down under') investigate, but make very slow progress.  Indeed, the only crime that can be proven is the terrible pasties served at the 'Foo' Diner.  Once again it is necessary for Koko and Yum Yum to take charge and guide their fumbling humans from clue to clue.<br />With this novel the reader is introduced to the setting for the rest of the series - Pickaxe and it's environs, far to the north of the Daily Fluxion.  For those of you who wonder where this really is, I can only say that Lilian Braun's home for many years was the state of Michigan, but you will have to draw your own conclusions.  Much of this novel, as well as those to follow, will spend significant time fleshing out the scene with characters (every other one of which seems to be named Goodwinter), history and geography.  This sets the overall pattern for the tales, which will gradually become more cozy than mysterious.  The puzzles, never really particularly difficult, will become increasingly less important as Braun focuses on life in this somewhat fantastical world.<br />The writing itself remains enjoyable throughout, the antics of the cats stay as delightful, and Qwilleran will be stubborn and irascible for the foreseeable future.  I enjoy the stories for the relief they provide from the seemingly inescapable seriousness of many mysteries and thrillers.  The books provide a comfort zone where bad things happen, but horrible things don't.  While I don't recommend trying to read the series one book after another they are great for those times when one needs a distraction.  And as another writer who is often out-thought by his cats, Braun strikes a very sympathetic note.ilian Braun's home for many years was the state of Michigan, but you will have to draw your own conclusions.  Much of this novel, as well as those to follow, will spend significant time fleshing out the scene with characters (every other one of which seems to be named Goodwinter), history and geography.  This sets the overall pattern for the tales, which will gradually become more cozy than mysterious.  The puzzles, never really particularly difficult, will become increasingly less important as Braun focuses on life in this somewhat fantastical world.<br />The writing itself remains enjoyable throughout, the antics of the cats stay as delightful, and Qwilleran will be stubborn and irascible for the foreseeable future.  I enjoy the stories for the relief they provide from the seemingly inescapable seriousness of many mysteries and thrillers.  The books provide a comfort zone where bad things happen, but horrible things don't.  While I don't recommend trying to read the series one book after another they are great for those times when one needs a distraction.  And as another writer who is often out-thought by his cats, Braun strikes a very sympathetic note.	2002-01-14
1696004:US	53082946	RZ2MN59H5S1GD	1885608268	846070050	Night Train to Memphis	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Tale of the Egyptian Cowboy	While I'm a long term fan of Elizabeth Peters and her delightful stories of Amelia Peabody and her mad, archeological family, I have never thought to pick up one of the Vicky Bliss mysteries.  Due, I think to cover blurbs that played up the romance and played down the mystery.  Faced with a long trip I decided to try 'Night Train to Memphis' on audio tape.  The tape failed at a crucial juncture, and I had to pick up a copy of the book in order to finish the novel, so this review actually covers both media.<br />Peters has a great affection for quirky, unforgettable lead women.  They are always strong characters and frequently outdo their male counterparts.  Vicky Bliss is no exception.  She is an attractive woman, an American who has the intelligence and knowledge to hold a position at the National Museum at Munich working with Professor Anton Schimdt.  The latter is one of those characters that combine inestimable knowledge with an almost irritating roly-poly cuteness.  Vicky is considerably less saccharine and lacks his compulsive fascination with American country music, the lyrics of which haunt this novel.<br />Vicki is asked by German intelligence to take part in a fabulous cruise of the Nile River, posing as a lecturer in Egyptian history.  They have information is that something unpleasant was due to happen on that cruise, but, do to the death of their agent, they have no idea what.  Vicky's job was to help keep whatever it is from happening.  When they refuse to accept her lack of knowledge of ancient Egypt as an excuse, Vicki gives in.  A chance to escape Schmidt for a bit if nothing else.<br />To her chagrin, she finds that one of the passengers on the cruise is her lover, noted jewel thief John Smythe.  She hadn't heard from him is six weeks, but she didn't expect him to turn up with a new wife, Mary, as well as Mary's mother.  Also on board is a cast of characters, from Larry Blenkiron, the fabulously wealthy aficionado of Egyptian artifacts and lore, to Luisa Ferncliffe, a romance novel maven.  Oh, lest I forget, Professor Schmidt shows up at the last moment.<br />What follows is comedy and seeming chaos.  Vicky finds herself the object of falling flowerpots, missing attendants, and dead archeologists.  While the pattern points to a master thief preparing to abscond with a fortune in Egyptian museum pieces almost anyone could fill the part or be working in aid of the plot.  Vicky shows a knack for disastrous heroics that inevitably get herself and her two timing jewel thief into deadly fixes.  By the time they have identified the guilty party most of Egypt is chasing them down the Nile.<br />Peter's really outdoes herself, coming up with one plot gimmick after another, each character more astounding than the next.  Often, in a Peter's novel, we are lulled into thinking that chaos is the rule, but 'Night Train to Memphis' shows a sure hand at the helm.  While I survived this being the first Vicky Bliss novel I would suggest that the reader consider reading something earlier in the series, a significant number of characters actually received their development in earlier novels, and that knowledge would greatly increase ones enjoyment.<br />A word on the audio tapes.  Kathleen Turner does a wonderful job being the voice of Vicky Bliss, managing to bring out many nuances that one might miss in reading.  While she does have a good ear for speech patterns and accents she overplays this slightly too much.  I did not care at all for her Professor Schmidt, who comes over as an overly comic Dutch uncle.  And John Smythe's voice is a bit more upper class than need be.  On the other hand, few actresses or actors have the range of voice necessary to do justice to such a diverse set of characters.  That Turner can come as close as she did is admirable.Luisa Ferncliffe, a romance novel maven.  Oh, lest I forget, Professor Schmidt shows up at the last moment.<br />What follows is comedy and seeming chaos.  Vicky finds herself the object of falling flowerpots, missing attendants, and dead archeologists.  While the pattern points to a master thief preparing to abscond with a fortune in Egyptian museum pieces almost anyone could fill the part or be working in aid of the plot.  Vicky shows a knack for disastrous heroics that inevitably get herself and her two timing jewel thief into deadly fixes.  By the time they have identified the guilty party most of Egypt is chasing them down the Nile.<br />Peter's really outdoes herself, coming up with one plot gimmick after another, each character more astounding than the next.  Often, in a Peter's novel, we are lulled into thinking that chaos is the rule, but 'Night Train to Memphis' shows a sure hand at the helm.  While I survived this being the first Vicky Bliss novel I would suggest that the reader consider reading something earlier in the series, a significant number of characters actually received their development in earlier novels, and that knowledge would greatly increase ones enjoyment.<br />A word on the audio tapes.  Kathleen Turner does a wonderful job being the voice of Vicky Bliss, managing to bring out many nuances that one might miss in reading.  While she does have a good ear for speech patterns and accents she overplays this slightly too much.  I did not care at all for her Professor Schmidt, who comes over as an overly comic Dutch uncle.  And John Smythe's voice is a bit more upper class than need be.  On the other hand, few actresses or actors have the range of voice necessary to do justice to such a diverse set of characters.  That Turner can come as close as she did is admirable.	2002-01-13
1699618:US	53082946	R1K5RHHJLHSLO0	1892984024	432989310	FrameWorks : Vayikra-Il Crie-Leviticus	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	He Called...	I seem to have an indwelling curiosity about things spiritual or religious, not because I am exceptionally devout, but because metaphysics and theology often grant insights into the workings of something larger than the simply human.  I have been quite a few different kinds of 'ist' and 'ism' in my time but my roots are Jewish.  Perhaps because it was the faith of the family I rebelled against it is the one I know the least.<br />Now I am at the other end of my life, and I have discovered a desire to do more than simply read the bible in yet another translation - this time as the Tanach, the Jewish scripture.  Now I want to do what Jews have done for thousands of years - study the Torah.  When a friend mentioned the work of Matis Weinberg it was a matter of the right suggestion at the right time.<br />This volume is the third and latest volume in Weinberg's series on the Torah.  By chance it was the first to fall in my hands and so I have begun my studies not at the beginning, but in the middle.  Leviticus is not a simple book, concerned as it is mostly with the dictation of the law and the establishment of Jewish ritual.  It says a great deal that Weinberg has taken potentially dry material and written a book of rich and satisfying brilliance.<br />Weinberg follows the parashot or subsections of Leviticus, writing one or two essays on each.  Using an interesting format he mixes modern thought, wisdom from the Talmud, and his own creative mind to find new ways to work with traditional subject matter.  Weinberg does not shy away from the difficult.  Two essays deal with the death of Aaron's sons, tragically punished for a well intentioned mistake.  From their end Weinberg explores the nature of being G-d's chosen and finds positive meaning locked within.  In another essay Weinberg confronts the issue of circumcision straight on, with surprising results.<br />While occasionally difficult, Weinberg's normal style is quite accessible for scholar, student, and dilettante alike.  He gives many examples and shows a fine and subtle sense of humor.  His writing is fluid and he shows great discernment in his choice of quotes and references.  This is a book you can read, and then take down, again and again, each time discovering more to learn.  I am looking forward to the others in this series.alike.  He gives many examples and shows a fine and subtle sense of humor.  His writing is fluid and he shows great discernment in his choice of quotes and references.  This is a book you can read, and then take down, again and again, each time discovering more to learn.  I am looking forward to the others in this series.	2002-01-10
1702153:US	53082946	RZ7BCE3GKLN82	0441007899	323847957	King's Cure	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	Unexpectedly Special Delivery	\\"The King's Cure\\" is the fifth in Daniel Hood's series, starring Liam Rhenford and Fanuilh, his dragon familiar.  It opens with Liam's arrival at Master Cade's home in the capital city of Torquay, to deliver a package from Liam's employer, Vespasianus, Duke of the Southern Tier.  Whatever the package is, Cade inspects it and then promptly asks Liam to carry it one step further.  This time Liam is to take the packet to a man named Bairth, and he is warned to avoid notice.<br /><br />Liam's irritation at running errands vanishes when his visit to Bairth's house puts him in the midst of a murder from which he barely escapes with his own life, helped considerably by Fanuilh's facility with spellcasting.  As Liam avoids the Peacekeepers, he discovers that the package is a small vial containing the King's Cure, a remedy specific to those of royal blood.  King Nicanor's health has been failing quickly and apparently the Duke had decided to offer aid.  Unfortunately, someone else is determined to prevent the vial from reaching the King, and has set up Liam as the scapegoat.<br /><br />Violent death seems to pursue Liam everywhere as he tries to resolve the crime and deliver the vial.  Not only does he face betrayal, but his every move seems to be anticipated by the Pacifex Warden.  He and Fanuilh are driven to the most extraordinary measures to avoid capture as they flee from place to place in Torquay.  Rarely is there enough time for Rhenford and the dragon to formulate a workable plan of action as they are foiled repeatedly by the brilliant Pacifex.<br /><br />I wish that Liam's relationship with Fanuilh was a bit better developed.  The little dragon has considerable intelligence and many glints of personality.  But Liam shifts from affection to master/servant with little rhyme or reason.  Given the size of Fanuilh's part, more character development is called for to avoid him becoming a deus ex machina.<br /><br />King's Cure is not really a true mystery story, but more of a fantasy adventure tale with a bit of a mystery at its inception.  This hardly harm's the plot, but the reader should not anticipate another Lord D'Arcy.  Instead enjoy it for what it is.  Daniel Hood spins an inventive and engaging tale.  Liam Rhenford is a character with depth as well as resourcefulness, much enhancing the tale.  The reader will also enjoy the vivid scenes of the city of Torquay.  The story stands quite well on its own.  Recommended.h a bit of a mystery at its inception.  This hardly harm's the plot, but the reader should not anticipate another Lord D'Arcy.  Instead enjoy it for what it is.  Daniel Hood spins an inventive and engaging tale.  Liam Rhenford is a character with depth as well as resourcefulness, much enhancing the tale.  The reader will also enjoy the vivid scenes of the city of Torquay.  The story stands quite well on its own.  Recommended.	2002-01-08
1707152:US	53082946	R1IC8GNBKK54L8	1588468046	656336971	Land of the Dead (Year of the Scarab Trilogy, Book Three)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Egypt, the Hard Way	At the close of the previous volume, 'Lay Down with Lions,' Thea Ghandour had just thrown the Heart of Osiris out of a window on the 73rd story of the Sears Tower, enabling her and Jake, the other surviving member of her team, to escape.  When the Heart (and the vampire that jumped out after it) lands on top of a parking garage, it interrupts a struggle between Carpenter (the gangster zombie), and Nicholas Sforza-Ankhotep (the gangster mummy) were trying to kill each other.  Two crashes later, Carpenter manages to grab the Heart and run off.  The curtain descends on a furious Nicholas.<br />This volume, 'The Land of the Dead' opens with Nicholas' return to Egypt.  For those of us who are not well acquainted with the mummies of the World of Darkness this turns out to be an education.  After a quick aside while Nicholas carries out the gratuitous slaughter of the entire lair of an Egyptian vampire.  This reestablishes for us that Sforza-Ankhotep as a creature to be reckoned with, since his performance against Carpenter was utterly lackluster.  Then we are off to the Mummy hideaway beneath the Cities of the Dead in Cairo.  Here we are given far more information than is usual for White Wolf about immortal mummies.  Compared to a lot of the vampires, this is genuinely interesting.<br />Now the story the shifts back to Thea and her friend Jake.  They are trying to figure out what they can do about Thea's roommate, Margie, who is temporarily a basket case.  This is difficult since every vampire in Chicago is avidly hunting for them.  They, in turn, are hunting for Carpenter, who betrayed the hunter team.  Computer whiz Jake manages to discover that Carpenter has apparently left for Egypt.  Thea convinces the vampires the Margie is dead and returns her to her folks for safe keeping.  Then Jake and Thea head for Egypt, broke, but determined to kick zombie.<br />Carpenter is indeed heading for Egypt.  He is convinced that he can use the Heart to gain immortality, a considerable improvement over being an undying zombie that is having trouble staying together in one piece.  Equipped with his magic hammer and knife, and the Heart of Osiris, Carpenter manages to keep together and begins to mount his attack on the mysteries of ancient Egypt.  With everyone having some sort of psychic connection with everyone else this is a recipe for a series of titanic collisions.  Not the least of which is a major disaster at Port Said.  If the reader is looking for a lot of violent action, he (or she) has come to the right place,<br />It is something of a shame that this series came out in what is otherwise White Wolf's worst year as a fiction publisher.  Andrew Bates is an interesting, if purely plot oriented writer who deserves better than what has recently been done in for the World of Darkness.  Hopefully he is the sign of a revival of the energies what once inhabited the produces of this game publisher, and just their last, undying gasp.le improvement over being an undying zombie that is having trouble staying together in one piece.  Equipped with his magic hammer and knife, and the Heart of Osiris, Carpenter manages to keep together and begins to mount his attack on the mysteries of ancient Egypt.  With everyone having some sort of psychic connection with everyone else this is a recipe for a series of titanic collisions.  Not the least of which is a major disaster at Port Said.  If the reader is looking for a lot of violent action, he (or she) has come to the right place,<br />It is something of a shame that this series came out in what is otherwise White Wolf's worst year as a fiction publisher.  Andrew Bates is an interesting, if purely plot oriented writer who deserves better than what has recently been done in for the World of Darkness.  Hopefully he is the sign of a revival of the energies what once inhabited the produces of this game publisher, and just their last, undying gasp.	2002-01-05
1710939:US	53082946	R1LFU0N8GT2H8S	0967822106	924147487	Harm None: A Rowan Gant Investigation	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	The Wiccan Rede	When one thinks of Wiccan mystery stories the works of Rosemary Edghill and Mercedes Lackey come quickly to mind.  Now, adding to that august pair comes a third, M. R. Sellars.  I believe Sellars may be unique, in the occult mystery genre in that he has chosen a male witch, Rowan Gant, as the primary protagonist.  This affects the Wiccan rituals described in 'Harm None' as well, references to Diana (the Goddess) are carefully balanced with references to Pan.<br />When Detective Ben Storm, an old friend stops in for cigars and a drink, it turns out that it is not just a friendly visit.  A horrific murder has occurred that has the St. Louis Police Department in an uproar.  A young woman was skinned alive and then her throat was slashed.  Evidences of ritual magic are all over the crime scene, and Ben needs Rowan's help to understand what has happened.  As he studies the scene, Rowan realizes that he knows the victim, Ariel Tanner, a witch taught by Rowan and his wife Felicity.  Confronted with this Rowan insists on deeper involvement.<br />In a short period of time the victim count goes up quickly.  Each crime is more careful and more sophisticated than the last.  The killer has stopped slashing throats, and is now tearing the beating hearts out of his victims through bleeding pentacles.  Rowan's crime scene visions and haunting dreams provide valuable clues, but are not enough to pinpoint the ritual mage and stop him before he kills again.  All these deaths are simply for practice, preparation for the real ritual.  Which is due to happen all too soon.<br />There are plenty of suspects, and all of Ariel's coven must be considered.  Especially Devon Johnstone, who was thrown out of the cover for breaking the first rule if Wicca and sacrificing an animal.  Another suspect is R.J., unsuccessfully enamored of Ariel; he turns up suddenly at Ariel's apartment and seems connected to all the victims.  Rowan's own problems trying to identify the killer are worsened when the FBI gets involved in the person of Special Agent Mandalay, who has no time for Rowan's 'hocus pocus.'<br />There is always a potential problem in occult crime fiction - that the investigating witch or mage's powers will overwhelm the plot.  Rowan's powers are not trivial.  Besides the ability to enter the spirit world and re-experience the murder, he can manage hypnosis and glamour, shield himself, and sense magical force.  Fortunately Sellars has left him vulnerable to physical and spiritual attack, as well as prone to the same human errors.  And magical confrontations are kept to a minimum.<br />Over all, the story is well balanced, although characterization is a bit skimpy outside the inner circle of characters.  Nor would it have hurt to provide a bit more background on Felicity and Rowan as well.  How two Wiccan's, a computer programmer and a professional photographer wound up in St. Louis, Missouri would be an interesting tale in istself.  Sellars knowledge of Wicca and ritual magic is at least solid enough that I was unable to spot any embarrassing mistakes.  Overall, I found 'Harm None' started a bit slowly, but the pace picked up considerable until it became hard to put down.  It will be interesting to see what Sellars does next with this series.BI gets involved in the person of Special Agent Mandalay, who has no time for Rowan's 'hocus pocus.'<br />There is always a potential problem in occult crime fiction - that the investigating witch or mage's powers will overwhelm the plot.  Rowan's powers are not trivial.  Besides the ability to enter the spirit world and re-experience the murder, he can manage hypnosis and glamour, shield himself, and sense magical force.  Fortunately Sellars has left him vulnerable to physical and spiritual attack, as well as prone to the same human errors.  And magical confrontations are kept to a minimum.  <br />Over all, the story is well balanced, although characterization is a bit skimpy outside the inner circle of characters.  Nor would it have hurt to provide a bit more background on Felicity and Rowan as well.  How two Wiccan's, a computer programmer and a professional photographer wound up in St. Louis, Missouri would be an interesting tale in istself.  Sellars knowledge of Wicca and ritual magic is at least solid enough that I was unable to spot any embarrassing mistakes.  Overall, I found 'Harm None' started a bit slowly, but the pace picked up considerable until it became hard to put down.  It will be interesting to see what Sellars does next with this series.	2002-01-02
1713064:US	53082946	R2042DJEDTUE03	0613063856	997569693	The Cat Who Turned on and Off	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Welcome to Junktown	While the publisher list this as the fourth novel in this series, Amazon is correct in labeling it as the third, preceding 'The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern.'  This is a minor irritant, but interferes not at all with the story line.  Perfectionists should beware, however.  Other than that, it is a repeat of Braun's usual approach in these early stories, finding Qwilleran once again moving, once again turning a mild assignment into a crime investigation and once again being outthought by his cats.<br />The occasion for the move is a reporter's contest at the Daily Fluxion that will pay the winner [amt]. Qwill decides to write a story about Junktown, a rundown part of the city, that is filled with countless, equally rundown antique and junk stores, a Mecca for those who like their collectibles 'in the rough.'  Without fail Qwill immediately finds a new home, a strange little apartment in The Junkery, the store, home, and boarding house of Iris and C.C. Cobb.<br />It will not surprise the reader to discover that the apartment was originally the residence of Andrew Glanz, a dealer who recently died in a gruesome accident, falling off a ladder onto an old brass finial in his store.  Nor should it surprise the reader when Qwill decides to investigate the suspicious death, possibly motivated by the lovely Mary Duckworth, Andrew's lady friend and, hopefully, Qwill's date to the Fluxion's Christmas party.<br />The further into Glanz's death Qwill probes, the more suspicious it looks.  Even worse, another 'accidental' death occurs, that of C.C. Cobb.  Qwill carries Koko around investigating and the two cats pull off many antics on their own.  And there is much to be discovered.  How did Glanz really fall on the finial?  Who was with C.C. when he fell?  Where is the missing manuscript?  Who is Mathilda the ghost?  And where do Koko and Yum Yum keep disappearing to?<br />Qwill is unable to escape exposure to both the shady and bright side of antiquing as he finds himself working a store counter and sneaking into a condemning building looking for valuables. He barely manages to survive several of his own accidents, and for a time he is baffled.  As usual the Koko and Yum Yum save the day, not only switching lights on and off, but learning to type and flush toilets as well.  Team Meow once again goes into action to expose nefarious doings and bring evildoers to justice.<br />As always, Lilian Braun's characters and gentle satire are delightful. She seems to write with considerable knowledge of the antique trade, even managing to predict the future of collecting when she introduces the idea of tech-tiques several years before the craze took off.  While she often uses similar plot gimmicks from novel to novel, Braun always manages to give everything a unique twist that makes her eminently readable.store counter and sneaking into a condemning building looking for valuables. He barely manages to survive several of his own accidents, and for a time he is baffled.  As usual the Koko and Yum Yum save the day, not only switching lights on and off, but learning to type and flush toilets as well.  Team Meow once again goes into action to expose nefarious doings and bring evildoers to justice.<br />As always, Lilian Braun's characters and gentle satire are delightful. She seems to write with considerable knowledge of the antique trade, even managing to predict the future of collecting when she introduces the idea of tech-tiques several years before the craze took off.  While she often uses similar plot gimmicks from novel to novel, Braun always manages to give everything a unique twist that makes her eminently readable.	2002-01-01
1713594:US	53082946	R8YLVKB9GZN8N	038081286X	184202496	A Place of Darkness: A Mystery of Ancient Egypt (Lieutenant Bak)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	To Rob the Dead	Lieutenant Bak has much to be excited about.  Acting on his suspicions, Bak has managed to foil the smuggling activities of Nenwaf, and recapture valuable jewelry taken from one of the tombs surrounding the ancient temple of Nebhepetre Montuhotep near Waset.  The same site where Maatkare Hatshepsut, the only female ruler of Egypt, is having her own temple built.<br />No sooner is this accomplished then Commander Thuty calls his officers into a meeting to announce that he us being to transferred to Mennufer and would like to take them with him.  For Bak this means not only an opportunity, but the easing of the exile to which Hatshepsut had sentenced him.  Thuty then asks Bak to take the recovered treasure back to Waset and offer his help to Amonked, the Storekeeper of Amon, who is an old friend.<br />Lieutenant Bak heads to Waset in the company of Hori, a young scribe, and Kasaya, one of Bak's police officers.  He finds that the building of the new temple is plagued with serious problems.  One or more people have disguised themselves as 'malign spirits,' and have caused considerable death and injury.  Amonked asks Bak to look into the sabotage.  While investigating the site a body is discovered, that of the architect Montu.  Tension grows worse, and the workers are threatening to walk off.<br />In short order Bak is dodging attacks on himself as he tries to put together the pieces of an intricate puzzle that point to a cold and calculating mind.  Convinced that the interference at the site is connected to the tomb robberies, the young lieutenant and his companions comb the construction site looking for clues to fabulous treasure.  There he believes he will find his answers.<br />In this fifth in her series of 18th dynasty mysteries about Lieutenant Bak, Lauren Haney demonstrates the same level of skill that keeps her a success.  These tales are richly complex, combining an engaging plot with countless interesting characters and a fine command of historical detail.  Her stories lack the political background of Lynda Robinson's books, but compensate by giving us a wonderful vision of the real workings of the ancient world.Her stories lack the political background of Lynda Robinson's books, but compensate by giving us a wonderful vision of the real workings of the ancient world.	2001-12-31
1715271:US	53082946	R2ODZHVKVPMTT5	4906574122	317716827	Tesuji	Books	4	43	46	N	N	Making The Right Move	Lately I've been refreshing my skills at the Japanese game of Go.  I was addicted to the game in college, but I've had no real opportunities to play since that time.  Recently I discovered some Go players in my circle of acquaintances, so I decided to bring my skills back up to an acceptable, i.e., non-embarrassing level.<br />Buried in my half-shelf of books on the game are several by James Davies, who started out translating Go books, and went on to write several himself.  He has a pleasant, clear writing style which makes his exposition of some of the mysteries of one of the world's most popular games a pleasant pastime.<br />Tesuji are combat tactics of life and death on the go board.  Many times they are obvious, but most of the time they require seeing just a bit deeper than the immediate hack and slash.  The eye needs a lot of practice to recognize the opportunities for using various tesuji.  To a beginner they often seem like magic, to a good player they are the scalpels and tweezers of combat.<br />Davies does a fine job of explaining the workings of many tesuji and provides an almost inexhaustible supply of problems to work through.  I feel he could have spent a bit more time on the solutions, but I never found one I couldn't figure out eventually.  Perhaps his reticence actually encourages deeper learning.  This is intended primarily as a beginner's book, but I think intermediate players would find it useful as well.	2001-12-30
1716992:US	53082946	R2236GB2SIYWYX	0151006849	645828812	The Other Wind (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 6)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Earthsea Redux	It has been a hiatus of some 20 years since I last read the first three volumes in this series.  I loved them very dearly, but somehow was distracted when 'Tehanu' and 'Tales from Earthsea' came out, and I simply was never aware of them.  For me, 'The Other Wind' is a sudden appearance, and one that I approached with no small pleasure.  Now I find that the long wait was justified.  Le Guin's latest effort is a remarkable experience.<br />Alder, a sorcerer whose skill is mending, is deeply troubled by dreams of the dead.  Nightmares about his newly lost wife and others struggling to be free.  These dreams drive him to the wizards at Roke, who in turn send Alder on to Ged, once the Archmage of Earthsea, now powerless, but happy.  Ged recognizes that Alder's dreams are the truth,  that something momentous is happening at the wall which borders the dry kingdom of the dead.  He sends Alder on to Havnor from where Lebannen rules the kingdom.<br />Lebannen is deeply troubled by Alder's report.  Nor is that his only problem.  Seserakh, daughter of the Kargish king has been offered to him for wife, and Lebannen resents this manipulation.  In addition dragons at the edge of his kingdom are beginning to terrorize and attack the populace, breaking a longstanding truce.  Nor is he happy that Tenar, Ged's wife, has taken Seserakh's side.  Tehanu, adopted by Ged and Tenar, badly disfigured by fire as a child, is his only link to the dragons.  Kalessin, the eldest dragon has recognized her as his daughter.<br />When Lebannen, Tehanu, and Onyx of Roke confront the dragons about their actions they discover little, and much.  The dragons agree to a temporary truce, and bronze Irian, another of Kalessin's children, consents to come to Havnor to parley.  There in the councils of Havnor Irian tells the dragons' story and the forgotten legends of many of the Earthsea folk are recalled.  In some fashion, the human quest for eternal life has broken both the agreement between dragon and human and the heart of the world.  All must go to Roke to find the answer in the immanent grove and heal the damage.<br />For a thin book, 'The Other Wind' has an incredible richness of themes.  Life after death, sacrifice, courage, the varieties of love, redemption, and many others weave together time and again.  There are no villains in this story, where much of the action takes place in the heart and the mind.  Nor is there violence.  Just questions, and answers, and questions again.  Le Guin has an almost zen-like ability to use just enough writing to serve her purpose, and trusts us to fill in the rest ourselves.  She has also made me homesick for the first tales in this series, to be once again beguiled by dragons and wizards.n and the heart of the world.  All must go to Roke to find the answer in the immanent grove and heal the damage.<br />For a thin book, 'The Other Wind' has an incredible richness of themes.  Life after death, sacrifice, courage, the varieties of love, redemption, and many others weave together time and again.  There are no villains in this story, where much of the action takes place in the heart and the mind.  Nor is there violence.  Just questions, and answers, and questions again.  Le Guin has an almost zen-like ability to use just enough writing to serve her purpose, and trusts us to fill in the rest ourselves.  She has also made me homesick for the first tales in this series, to be once again beguiled by dragons and wizards.	2001-12-28
1719949:US	53082946	R3C02XBIX9O7NA	0880333898	698535558	Vampires in the Carpathians	Books	3	11	12	N	N	When Is a Title Not a Title?	I'm going to have to confess that I bought this book because of its title.  I like to read and review vampire books, and believe that having some background knowledge can add some interest to a review.  So I pulled the book down from the shelf, turned to one of the few pages in the book that actually contained the word vampire, and bought it.  It was only when I started to reed it at home that I discovered that its real title is 'Magical Acts, Rites and Beliefs in Subcarpathian Rus.' The current title is an invention of either the translator's or the publisher.  So, starting right out, the book loses a star for pretending it is what it is not.<br />What is it?  Petr Bogatyrev was a Russian ethnologist who should have been better known than he is.  He was born in 1893 and died in 1971.  Among his other accomplishments besides this book is his translation into Russian of Hasek's 'Good Soldier Svejk.'  He spent his early academic life studying the folklore and customs of Czechoslovakia, eventually earning an honorary Doctor of Philology for this book.  He pursued his career in Russia upon returning, but eventually fell victim to the Stalinist fervor of the times and spent most of his life in obscurity.  To our loss, since 'Magical Rites...' reveals a keen and interesting mind.<br />Bogatyrev was an exponent of the synchronic method of ethnography, which he came upon in his linguistic studies.  In it's essence it was a rebellion against historical ethnography which attempts to trace backward from contemporary studies to discover the original myths and legends as they existed in some prehistorical period of cultural unity.  Instead, Bogatyrev believed we should try to study the present legends and belief systems in context in order to understand their contemporary significance.  This allows us to understand the 'magical' mechanisms underlying folk practices, categorize them appropriately, and recognize the sources of variation and commonality.  This method reminds me most of Mircea Eliade, who uses a similar approach in 'Shamanism' in 1951, albeit with much greater success.<br />The flaw in this method is that the reader is often confronted with a massive catalog of facts, without the kind of organization that makes it easy to see the forest rather than get lost in the trees.  Only in isolated paragraphs do we find discussions which gradually bring the material together into a conceptual whole.  Often the message is disappointingly trivial.  Bogatyrev spends a great deal of time and effort rediscovering Frazer's principals of magic; the law of similarity and the law of contact.  But he never muses on his inability to discover examples of the law of opposition, and so leaves his findings in question, or at least, lacking in depth.<br />Since catalogs of Subcarpathian folklore are not common, the book's intrinsic value is greater than it's expository worth as a demonstration of methodology.  That it belongs on the shelves of ethnographers is without doubt.  The exposition is well written.  The book is organized into a methodological introduction followed by a large section organized according to the folk calendar.  Subsequent chapters discuss births and baptism, weddings, funerals, finally ending with apparitions and supernatural beings.  In no case, however, should you by this in the hope of discovering anything relevant to vampires.  They are most definitely not what Bogatyrev was interested in.st of Mircea Eliade, who uses a similar approach in 'Shamanism' in 1951, albeit with much greater success.<br />The flaw in this method is that the reader is often confronted with a massive catalog of facts, without the kind of organization that makes it easy to see the forest rather than get lost in the trees.  Only in isolated paragraphs do we find discussions which gradually bring the material together into a conceptual whole.  Often the message is disappointingly trivial.  Bogatyrev spends a great deal of time and effort rediscovering Frazer's principals of magic; the law of similarity and the law of contact.  But he never muses on his inability to discover examples of the law of opposition, and so leaves his findings in question, or at least, lacking in depth.<br />Since catalogs of Subcarpathian folklore are not common, the book's intrinsic value is greater than it's expository worth as a demonstration of methodology.  That it belongs on the shelves of ethnographers is without doubt.  The exposition is well written.  The book is organized into a methodological introduction followed by a large section organized according to the folk calendar.  Subsequent chapters discuss births and baptism, weddings, funerals, finally ending with apparitions and supernatural beings.  In no case, however, should you by this in the hope of discovering anything relevant to vampires.  They are most definitely not what Bogatyrev was interested in.	2001-12-26
1720630:US	53082946	RTY267INZMPNN	0788754882	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Red	Books	5	22	24	N	N	The Qwilleran Diet	In this, the third book in the series, we find Qwilleran and his two feline companions once again moving into a new apartment.  And once again Qwilleran is grumbling about his latest reporting assignment - the roving gourmet.  At least this time Qwill can't pretend that he knows nothing about eating.  Instead, the problem is that he knows too much, and so his doctor has put him on a Strict diet.  But how can Qwill lose weight and still write about fine food?<br />Qwilleran is invited to a small dinner at the house of Robert Maus, a famous gourmet lawyer.  The Maus Haus, as it is called, was once an art center but now has become the home of a group of exceptional and unusual people in the food business (this is the first appearance of Hixie Rice), and a pair of potters, Joy and Dan Graham.  As it happens Joy was an old flame of Qwilleran's.  When he finds out that there is an open apartment at the Maus Haus he snaps it up.<br />Qwill pretends that he is not falling for Joy again, but no one else, including Koko and Yum Yum, is fooled.  Certainly Joy is not, in short order she asks Qwill to help her financially in getting a divorce from the nerdy Dan.  He lends her $750.  Suddenly there is a scream in the night and Joy disappears under suspicious circumstances.  Qwilleran investigates, in league with Koko, who has graduated from communication via hairballs and the dictionary game, to using the typewriter.<br />In short order Robert Maus's house boy vanishes and Quill must solve two disappearances.  And then follow repeated attempts to ruin the reputation of The Golden Lambchop, housemate Max Sorrel's restaurant.  Throw in a few suicides from many years before and you have a plot as intricate as the webs Yum Yum has learned to weave with balls of yarn.<br />As is often the case in a Braun story the solution is apparent a little too early to pretend that this is really a mystery story.  Really what Qwilleran and his assistants do is fill in all the pieces to that someone else besides Qwilleran will believe there is a crime.  This is always great fun.  Lilian Braun has a mischievous sense of humor that often shines through Quill's irreverent questions and musings.  And his relations with his felines remind up what a precarious position homo sapiens really occupies on the evolutionary ladder.e else besides Qwilleran will believe there is a crime.  This is always great fun.  Lilian Braun has a mischievous sense of humor that often shines through Quill's irreverent questions and musings.  And his relations with his felines remind up what a precarious position homo sapiens really occupies on the evolutionary ladder.	2001-12-26
1722154:US	53082946	R3JPSCVOBU02QB	0345447832	383802287	The Surgeon	Books	5	161	164	N	N	Today They Will Know We Are Back	&quot;The Surgeon&quot; is not a novel that has any intention of giving the reader an easy moment.  From the beginning of the story, as first we pay a visit to the cold mind of a serial killer, are swept into the autopsy of his latest victim, only to find ourselves in the middle of an operating room emergency, the reader is granted no respite.  The killer tortures the victims, first binding them, performing a waking hysterectomy, and then, after keeping them alive for a time, slashing their throats.  Now Boston detectives Thomas Moore and Jane Rizzoli are unwilling partners in a grizzly murder case.<br />Rizzoli discovers that the killer's modus operandi has occurred once before in Savannah, Georgia.  While the crimes are nearly identical there is one hitch.  The last victim of the Savannah killer not only survived, but killed her tormentor.  Survived to heal, leave Savannah and move to Boston where she practices as a surgeon and member of an emergency team.  Dr. Catherine Cordell finds herself dealing again with a horror from her past she thought was over.<br />It is not long before it is clear that Catherine Cordell is the real objective of the killer, now known as the Surgeon.  The killer's trail of victims defies all police efforts to identify a murderer, who seems to have risen from the dead.  The increasing menace to Dr. Cordell plays against her halting relationship with Moore and Rizzoli's almost compulsive antagonism.  Compared to the all too human character if his opponents, the Surgeon always appears supremely cold and efficient.  As apt to dwell on Greek myth as he his to exult over his victims.<br />Few characters come across as completely healthy in this tale.  Moore is recovering from the tragic loss of his wife, Rizzoli believes she is pitted against the entire male police establishment and Cordell struggles to free herself from the darkness that seized her in Savannah.  Gerritsen deserves the credit for deploying a cast like this, and then managing to avoid giving in completely to the bleakness that haunts noir fiction.  She does this with some flare, mixing in procedural, forensic and emergency room medicine in counterpoint to the primary plot.<br />I do feel it necessary to mention that the tale is not at all simply a grim tale of slaughter.  It deals with some very serious issues.  Gerritsen confronts the aftereffects of rape directly, and in very uncomfortable fashion.  Those of us who have been taught to belittle or deny how devastating this kind of personal invasion really is may have a tough time dealing with these passages.  I found Gerritsen's frankness illuminating but unsettling, as I think most readers will.<br />In retrospect I believe this may be the best suspense/serial killer novel of the 2001 crop.  Although there have been some close competitors.  I do not normally follow medical suspense, so I don't know how well it compares in that genre.  But I can't imagine it being far from the top on most reviewers lists.  While I am not normally a reader of medical thrillers, I intend to investigate more of Gerritsen's work.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Readerto avoid giving in completely to the bleakness that haunts noir fiction.  She does this with some flare, mixing in procedural, forensic and emergency room medicine in counterpoint to the primary plot.<br />I do feel it necessary to mention that the tale is not at all simply a grim tale of slaughter.  It deals with some very serious issues.  Gerritsen confronts the aftereffects of rape directly, and in very uncomfortable fashion.  Those of us who have been taught to belittle or deny how devastating this kind of personal invasion really is may have a tough time dealing with these passages.  I found Gerritsen's frankness illuminating but unsettling, as I think most readers will.<br />In retrospect I believe this may be the best suspense/serial killer novel of the 2001 crop.  Although there have been some close competitors.  I do not normally follow medical suspense, so I don't know how well it compares in that genre.  But I can't imagine it being far from the top on most reviewers lists.  While I am not normally a reader of medical thrillers, I intend to investigate more of Gerritsen's work.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Reader	2001-12-24
1723202:US	53082946	R3VJRER7505SJW	0515087122	307023147	The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Koko Eats the Evidence.	In this, the second in 'The Cat Who...' series, Lilian Braun draws us further into the zany world of reporter Jim Qwilleran and his fearless sidekick, Koko the Siamese cat.<br />Jim is quite upset when the managing editor of the Daily Fluxion pulls him off his job as art writer and assigns him the special task of bringing out a weekly home decorating guide.  While leading the 'Gracious Abodes' effort is a step up, it's not a step to what Qwill really wants to do - return to crime reporting.<br />Fortunately, Qwill connects with decorator David Lyke who manages to get Qwill and photographer Odd Bunsen into the Muggy Swamp mansion of G. Verning Tait, who has a fabulous jade collection.  But Qwill's efforts seem ill-fated when, no sooner was the weekly out in print, but the Tait mansion was broken into, and the jade collection stolen.  Paolo, the missing house boy is blamed, but Qwill's moustache keeps twitching, making him suspect that the theft was something else entirely.<br />Each issue of 'Gracious Abodes' seems similarly cursed.  The robbery first, then Quill's subject for the second issue turns out to be a house of ill repute, and finally David Lyke is murdered.  If Qwill hadn't become involved with Cokey, an attractive designer with an unusual approach to clothing, he would had quickly have become depressed.  But he struggles on, despite the rising paranoia of his managing editor, trying to convince someone that something even fishier than theft and murder is going on.<br />Koko in the meantime is showing some strange behaviors.  He seems to be irritated at Cokey, and has taken to eating Qwill's few wool ties.  Perplexed, Qwill is driven to visit a 'psycatatrist,' who provides explanations even stranger than Koko's behavior.  As you might expect, Koko has already solved the crime and is having trouble getting the message through to Qwilleran.<br />Will the mystery be solved?  Will Qwill read the message hidden in the hairballs?  This is the mystery.  And will Koko recover from meeting his future roommate, Princess Yum Yum?  Whatever the resolution, the reader can count on more cat hijinks in Lilian Braun's whimsical, enjoyable style.Koko recover from meeting his future roommate, Princess Yum Yum?  Whatever the resolution, the reader can count on more cat hijinks in Lilian Braun's whimsical, enjoyable style.	2001-12-22
1726907:US	53082946	R16IDOQY1FCNDG	1585670812	52859462	Freddy and the Bean Home News	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	The Pig Reporter	This delightful tale is set (and written) right in the midst of World War II.  While somewhat irreverent, it makes effective use of many of the effects of the war on rural America.  The animals at Bean Farm are patriotic creatures.  Anxious to participate in the local scrap iron collection effort (and win Mr. Bean a box of cigars) the animals are determined to use their special qualifications and teamwork to collect the largets amount.  Freddy, always the pig on the spot, writes up a report of the animals efforts (and a poem or so) and takes it to The Centerboro Guardian, where his friend Mr. Dimsey has always been willing to include an 'animal' news column.<br />But the worst has happened.  The snooty Mrs. Underdunk has foreclosed on Mr. Dimsey and installed her nephew Mr. Garble in his place.  Needless to say, Mr. Garble does not like animals.  He likes them even less when the enterprising Freddy collaborates with Mr. Dimsey to start up the Bean Home News.  In no time at all Freddy has captured a large readership and Mr. Garble is losing business.  When Mrs. Underdunk runs into Freddy on the sidewalk, and claims pig violence, war is declared.  The two newspapers start making allegations about the opponents and the stage is set for a political struggle that is more than faintly reminiscent of today's campaigns.<br />This high flown adventure story has Freddy hiding in jail to avoid being arrested, Hank the horse disguised as a deer on Mrs' Underdunk's lawn, and a newspaper where the chief society reporter is a chicken.  Plus, we are treated to the regular antics of the Bean Farm crew.  As usual Mrs. Wiggens the Cow  laughs too much.  Charles the Rooster gets so good at pretending he had a cold that he actually catches one and loses a chance to make a speech.  Jinx the cat collects iron by singing for it, and Old Whibley the owl wins a court case and engineers a revolution.<br />This is one of Walter Brooks best plots.  It is well paced and cannot fail to keep up the reader's interest right to the end.  Kurt Weise's illustrations are numerous and perfect.  As is often in the case, the lesson being taught is &quot;have fun, care for your country, have fun, support your friends, have fun, stand up for what's right.&quot;  Did I forget to mention &quot;have fun?&quot;  I think I like the Freddy the Pig books now more than I did as a child.  Then, innocence kept the lessons from being as meaningful as they are to me as an adult.  Now they are treasures.the reader's interest right to the end.  Kurt Weise's illustrations are numerous and perfect.  As is often in the case, the lesson being taught is &quot;have fun, care for your country, have fun, support your friends, have fun, stand up for what's right.&quot;  Did I forget to mention &quot;have fun?&quot;  I think I like the Freddy the Pig books now more than I did as a child.  Then, innocence kept the lessons from being as meaningful as they are to me as an adult.  Now they are treasures.	2001-12-19
1729235:US	53082946	R3TP20FRVT18VX	0060188863	515232003	Minutes to Burn	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bio-Terror in the Galapagos	&quot;Minutes to Burn&quot; is a biological suspense story set in the not too far future, when ozone depletion has started to become critical, not only endangering life, but releasing tectonic upheavals that have started to spread chaos in equatorial America.  The name comes from warning signs that appear in the exposed areas which inform people of the estimated time before exposure will cause serious sunburn.  Throughout the book this is measured in short minutes, not in hours.<br />When a Navy SEAL team is assigned to accompany Dr. Rex Williams to Sangre de Dios, in the Galapagos Islands, the task is considered a cakewalk.  It is a simple matter of affixing six tectonic monitors and leaving.  The small team is put together out of what's available.  Derek Mitchell, recovering from the death of his child and the institutionalization of his wife is the Officer in Charge.  Szabla is his fierce, determined second.  Carmeron Kates, considering an abortion is brought in with her husband, Justin.  Tucker, recovering from drug abuse, Tank, the demolitions man, and, finally, William Savage, a 50 year old ex-con and Viet Nam vet, round out the personnel.<br />What the team doesn't know is that Sangre de Dios is in the middle of a biological crisis.  The release of a DNA modifying virus has triggered the development of a nine foot tall praying mantis form that is viable and laying eggs.  When the team has all its weaponry stolen in Ecuador, and they decide to proceed to the island anyway, they find themselves facing a deadly and efficient killer.  In the ensuing action they quickly realize that something must be done to control the Mantid's hatchling larva as well.<br />Back in the U.S. Dr. Samantha Everett, a viral specialist, analyzes water samples from Sangre de Dios and discovers the DNA changing virus.  All involved realize that the virus must be cleared and the mantid carriers killed or Sangre de Dios must be completely destroyed.  Hampered by internal dissent, the SEAL team is slow to mobilize its limited resources and the crisis worsens exponentially.  A new mantid reaches adulthood and the only things left to eat on the island are the team members.<br />I was amazed how believable this story is, especially considering it's somewhat outlandish plot.  Hurwitz has taken the time to fill in all the interesting details of ozone depletion as well as biological and tectonic information.  The science is fascinating.  The team's military behavior is equally well drawn.  Beyond this is the fine detailing of the many characters that play a part in the story.  Action thrillers rarely have writing this strong.  This may be the best of its kind this year.<br />&quot;Minutes to Burn&quot; does present the conscientious reviewer with something of a dilemma.  Most of the key plot elements are borrowed.  The most blatant case, the idea of a monster created by a virus that modifies DNA, is a straight take from &quot;The Relic.&quot;  But stranded SEAL teams, ozone depletion, and earthquake scenarios are all commonplace as well, even giant mantids.  Despite all that borrowing, Gregg Hurwitz has taken these ideas and created a novel that feels entirely original and is every bit as exciting as its predecessors.  Perhaps more so.  In the end I felt that I had no choice but to give it a well deserved full rating.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Readerteam is slow to mobilize its limited resources and the crisis worsens exponentially.  A new mantid reaches adulthood and the only things left to eat on the island are the team members.<br />I was amazed how believable this story is, especially considering it's somewhat outlandish plot.  Hurwitz has taken the time to fill in all the interesting details of ozone depletion as well as biological and tectonic information.  The science is fascinating.  The team's military behavior is equally well drawn.  Beyond this is the fine detailing of the many characters that play a part in the story.  Action thrillers rarely have writing this strong.  This may be the best of its kind this year.<br />&quot;Minutes to Burn&quot; does present the conscientious reviewer with something of a dilemma.  Most of the key plot elements are borrowed.  The most blatant case, the idea of a monster created by a virus that modifies DNA, is a straight take from &quot;The Relic.&quot;  But stranded SEAL teams, ozone depletion, and earthquake scenarios are all commonplace as well, even giant mantids.  Despite all that borrowing, Gregg Hurwitz has taken these ideas and created a novel that feels entirely original and is every bit as exciting as its predecessors.  Perhaps more so.  In the end I felt that I had no choice but to give it a well deserved full rating.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Reader	2001-12-17
1731310:US	53082946	R2FVRXRXM2VY32	0515090174	103586426	The Cat Who Could Read Backwards	Books	4	94	95	N	N	Koko's First Bow	I have been a Lilian Braun fan for so long I've managed to forget most of the stories, which is a perfect excuse to start rereading them.  &quot;The Cat Who Could Read Backwards&quot; is the first, written in 1966, starting a series that has run for over thirty years.  Unlike most if the series, which takes place in the northern town of Pickaxe.  These early books cover Jim Qwilleran's career urban career Down Below, working for the Daily Fluxion.  While Qwill had once been a highly respected crime reporter, he had fallen victim to his drinking habits.  Now, once again sober, he has accepted a job as art feature writer for the Fluxion, which already has the cities most controversial art critic - George Bonifield Mountclemens (the Third).<br />Other than the minor drawback of knowing nothing about art, Qwill is anxious to start.  He quickly dives into the city's thriving art world, and discovers that all is not roses and harmony.  Mountclemens is universally unpopular among most of the artists and galleries and is noted for scathing reviews.  Cal Halapay, the first artist interviewed is one of Mountclemens victims, and almost all the artists Qwill meets have endures similar treatment.  In addition, the city's artists are fiercely competitive.  So it comes as a surprise that the first murder of the novel is not Mountclemens, but Earl Lambreth, the owner of the city's poshest gallery.<br />Despite Mountclemens' reputation, Qwill finds that he likes him.  More important to readers of the series, Mountclemens' cat, Kao K'o-Kung, takes a liking to Qwilleran.  Koko, as he become known, is &quot;The Cat Who...&quot;, without whom few of Qwill's mysteries would ever get solved.  Also introduced in this volume are many of the wonderful characters that go one to people many of Lilian Braun's efforts.  Especially Archer Riker, the Fluxion's feature editor and Odd Bunsen the erratic, outspoken newspaper photographer.<br />Lilian Braun's novels are of the more or less non-violent, puzzle-oriented genre often labeled 'cozies.'  They make up for the lack of a tense, driving plot by emphasizing charming, irascible characters, and a somewhat tongue-in-cheek attitude.  Braun is extremely successful at this.  Sometimes the reader will feel that the murder is more of a subplot rather than the primary them of the novel.  Fans are comfortable with this, but the newcomer needs to be prepared for these endearing, but picaresque tales.nt, puzzle-oriented genre often labeled 'cozies.'  They make up for the lack of a tense, driving plot by emphasizing charming, irascible characters, and a somewhat tongue-in-cheek attitude.  Braun is extremely successful at this.  Sometimes the reader will feel that the murder is more of a subplot rather than the primary them of the novel.  Fans are comfortable with this, but the newcomer needs to be prepared for these endearing, but picaresque tales.	2001-12-15
1733433:US	53082946	R2ANRNQY3PJV94	0899062695	255329928	Tanach: The Torah, Prophets, Writings:  The Twenty-Four Books of the Bible, Newly Translated and Annotated (The Artscroll Series)	Books	5	282	286	N	N	A Bible for Study	Recently I've been revisiting my Jewish heritage.  I have quite a few bibles, of different translations, since I like to compare versions.  I suddenly realized that I had English, Latin, Greek, and even Aramaic available, but that I had no Hebrew bible.  Anyone rambling about the web quickly discovers that The Stone Edition (so called because Irving I. Stone was its patron) commands much respect for it's Hebrew and English versions as well as a wealth of supporting material.<br />I am not well equipped to evaluate the Hebrew text but I found the English translation endlessly fascinating.  For example, Bereishis (Genesis) opens &quot;In the beginning of God's creating the heavens and the earth -- when the earth was astonishingly empty....&quot;  Suddenly we are in the mind of narrator who feels quite different than the other voices that have been given to the Bible.  It is a voice that is just a bit more like people than oratory or rhetoric.  It was a difference I quickly came to like.<br />I also found the commentary that runs with the text very useful often resolving questions and keeping the focus on the intent of the text.  The Parashas are clearly marked in the Torah, as are the Haftaras elsewhere.  The books are each provided with a short introduction that provides insight into the background and context of the writing.  An overview of the Tanach is provided as well as the requisite blessings and guides to pronunciation.  We are also given extensive tables for everything from Torah readings, to timelines, biblical genealogy to the construction of the Tabernacle.<br />This is actually the richest and most informative bible I own, and is already providing me much to think about.  While it is of most value to someone who is practicing Judaism, I thing it would repay the investment of many people who have an interest in the bible as spiritual history and inspiration.  For the academic student, it is required reading.  I chose to acquire the leather bound edition, for it's durability.  To be honest, though, the lower priced editions available here are every bit as good in quality.  There is no material missing from them so they actually represent an tremendous bargain.or it's durability.  To be honest, though, the lower priced editions available here are every bit as good in quality.  There is no material missing from them so they actually represent an tremendous bargain.	2001-12-14
1735377:US	53082946	R1QSA615ITNELI	1580621945	942553573	Bringing Heaven Down to Earth: Meditations and Everyday Wisdom from the Teachings of the Rebbe, Menachem Schneerson	Books	5	38	39	N	Y	Dancing With The Rebbe	I was an early casualty of the faith of my parents.  Not particularly religious themselves, they left me with a sense of the form of our religion, but no picture whatever of it's content.  This wasn't their fault, it was simply very much the way we were in the 50's and 60's.  My own spiritual needs left unmet by my faith of origin, I drifted from the time I entered college, first as an atheist, and then as almost every kind of theist one can imagine.<br />Eventually I found a place that suits me spiritually, in which I can dwell and feel no need to convert the unfaithful.  From within this place, I have rediscovered a desire to spend some time reaping the wisdom of the religion I always took for granted, the one I was born into.  This is not necessarily a comfortable journey for me but one it has been time to make for a while.<br />One of the things I had never come to understand about Judaism until well into college was the tremendous mystical richness of Judaism.  What makes this mysticism special is its refusal to abandon the world in which we make our way.  From Jewish mystics and rebbes we expect practical advice as well as inspiration.  Rebbe Menachem Schneerson was for many years the premier spokesman for the Lubavitcher tradition of mystical Judaism.  A man who valued humility, wisdom, affection, humor and a deep abiding faith.<br />Tzvi Freeman has taken the time to compile the essence of Rebbe Schneerson's meditations and teachings.  This is simple, direct writing that would touch anyone, Jewish or not.  Short sections that can be read a paragraph at a time and meditated upon at will.  We are invited to take our beliefs out of the ivory tower and apply them in the world.  The first recommendation for the spiritual treatment of illness is 'find a good doctor and follow his instructions.'  The fourth is 'Increase your study of the inner light of the Torah.'<br />This kind of wisdom is good for all to use.  I would recommend &quot;Bringing Heaven Down to Earth&quot; not just to crabby old men such as I, but to anyone who finds themselves sometimes a seeker or wishes to understand more of the depths of Judaism.rth&quot; not just to crabby old men such as I, but to anyone who finds themselves sometimes a seeker or wishes to understand more of the depths of Judaism.	2001-12-12
1737084:US	53082946	R255Q5882EKWU0	0743407008	501911419	The Summoned (ANGEL)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Bad Deal with a Hot Demon	Just in time to cure Buffy-verse withdrawal, a new Angel story has arrived. Cameron Dokey, who is a prolific author with several Buffy tales, has managed to find another twist on Angel's find demon/kill demon plot line.  This time Doyle gets a staring, if somewhat embarrassing, part and we find that Angel's half demon assistant is much more than the frequent victim of Cordelia's acid tongue.<br />Doyle has a major vision in the middle of his nightly beer run.  One that starts out inside the head of a woman who is being burnt to a crisp and ends up with an image of a mysterious spinning coin.  Badly shaken up, he is aided by Terri Miller a young woman who is trying to live in Los Angeles.  In short order Doyle has offended Terri and run out trying to find Angel.  Upset by Doyle and her own poor luck Terri leaves the store to encounter Andy, a young man who seems to have everything figured out.  No surprise, Andy offers to help Terri out, getting the major subplot underway.<br />When Doyle reaches Angel, they are puzzled by the parameters of a vision that offers so little help.  They already know they have a problem with something that likes to burn people up, since the police are desperately trying to find a serial killer that everyone is calling the Krispy Kritter.  But when they get to the site of that night's Kritter killing they find no new evidence.  While Detective Kate Lockley is not assigned to this case, Angel notices that she is haunting the scene.<br />Kate is involved because a close friend, Dierdre Arensen, has lost her father to the Kritter.  Dierdre is so frustrated with the LAPD's lack of progress that Kate finally decides to take the psychologist to see Angel.  In the meantime Terri is inducted in the Illuminati, moves in next to Cordelia and literally drops one of the mysterious coins in Cordelia's lap.  By the time Dierdre is explaining to Angel that she believes her father was killed by a cult, he already knows that he is chasing Feutoch, a demon who makes a practice of offering to fulfill wishes in return for souls to toast.  The coin is the mark whereby the demon finds his victims.  Their only hope for information is Terri, who Doyle is assigned to follow and befriend.  This turns out to be an assignment that is seriously beyond Doyle's somewhat primitive social skills.<br />The rest of the novel is predictable, if well told.  The painfully inept Doyle manages to avoid being totally comic, and the overall result is entertaining.  Dokey has a somewhat hardboiled style which is a bit alarming at first, but then becomes quite refreshing.  I have to confess that I am getting a bit tired of 'early' Angel novels.  It is getting harder and harder to accept stories that are years behind the show.  It would be nice if Twentieth Century Fox would open up a little bit and allow the stories to be more contemporary.  Otherwise we are stuck with well-written, new old fiction.  Which eventually wears thin.who makes a practice of offering to fulfill wishes in return for souls to toast.  The coin is the mark whereby the demon finds his victims.  Their only hope for information is Terri, who Doyle is assigned to follow and befriend.  This turns out to be an assignment that is seriously beyond Doyle's somewhat primitive social skills.<br />The rest of the novel is predictable, if well told.  The painfully inept Doyle manages to avoid being totally comic, and the overall result is entertaining.  Dokey has a somewhat hardboiled style which is a bit alarming at first, but then becomes quite refreshing.  I have to confess that I am getting a bit tired of 'early' Angel novels.  It is getting harder and harder to accept stories that are years behind the show.  It would be nice if Twentieth Century Fox would open up a little bit and allow the stories to be more contemporary.  Otherwise we are stuck with well-written, new old fiction.  Which eventually wears thin.	2001-12-11
1737207:US	53082946	R2LI07KGU1M8I4	1569020337	85717840	A Modern Translation of the Kebra Nagast: (The Glory of Kings)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	The Ark in Ethiopia	As a lover of biblical legends and a peripatetic scholar in the subject area, I encountered a copy of the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; while following some thoughts on the travels of the Ark of the Covenant.  I have suspected that the Ark had made its way to Ethiopia some time in Israel's history.  This was the thesis of Graham Hancock in &quot;The Sign and the Seal,&quot; and I expected &quot;The Glory of Kings&quot; to reaffirm that belief.  As is often the case with this sort of literature: it does and it doesn't.<br />Set down some time in the 11th Century, the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; is the history of the Queen of Sheba's visit to King Solomon, the birth of her son and the eventual removal of the Ark to Ethiopia.  It is a remarkable document that shifts from testament style writing to Gnostic Christianity repeatedly.  Its aim is to prove that the line of Ethiopian Kings is heir to the throne of David.  This is certainly a possibility since there has been a significant Jewish presence (currently referred to as the Falashas) in Ethiopia for several thousand years.<br />There are several things to keep under consideration while reading the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; story of the travels of the Ark.  The chiefest of these is that the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; was set down during a period of extreme turmoil in Ethiopian history.  This was a time when Jewish and Christian and Moslem forces were vying for power, and the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; was of vital importance in establishing the legitimacy of the line of Kings that was eventually to include Haile Selassie.  As such its real focus was on who was the rightful King of Ethiopia, and the story of the Ark is really an evidentiary tale.<br />Secondly, the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; is an effort to explain why the Falashas, who brought the Ark into Ethiopia, had lost control of it.  Unfortunately,  'The Glory of Kings' explains this as the result of the horrific sinfulness of the Jews.  Written at a time when there was little sympathy for Jewry, the story has strongly anti-Jewish sentiments.  I don't believe that this is true in modern Ethiopia, but it may make many readers quite uncomfortable with the text.<br />I mean no disrespect.  The &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; is an important text for members of the Rastafarians and should be treated with the same honor one would give to the sacred writings of any other group.  The books mix of mysticism and explanation is a fascinating insight into the Medieval world in places other than Europe, and should help to convince many that culture was alive and well in many places that we often label otherwise.<br />Whether you decide to believe the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; instead of one of the other legends of the Ark is a personal decision.  But I think this document contains much that would interest all those who seek more information on the Ark and its related legends, as well as the stories of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. The quality of the translation is excellent.  Also provided are two informative sections on the history of Ethiopia and to the Falasha themselves.e sympathy for Jewry, the story has strongly anti-Jewish sentiments.  I don't believe that this is true in modern Ethiopia, but it may make many readers quite uncomfortable with the text.<br />I mean no disrespect.  The &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; is an important text for members of the Rastafarians and should be treated with the same honor one would give to the sacred writings of any other group.  The books mix of mysticism and explanation is a fascinating insight into the Medieval world in places other than Europe, and should help to convince many that culture was alive and well in many places that we often label otherwise.<br />Whether you decide to believe the &quot;Kebra Nagast&quot; instead of one of the other legends of the Ark is a personal decision.  But I think this document contains much that would interest all those who seek more information on the Ark and its related legends, as well as the stories of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. The quality of the translation is excellent.  Also provided are two informative sections on the history of Ethiopia and to the Falasha themselves.	2001-12-11
1742340:US	53082946	R33IG385AOO75E	0312873441	679237512	Running On Instinct	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Too Many Cooks	&quot;Running on Instinct&quot; is a perplexing book.  Its premise, that an extremely powerful, deeply disturbed psychic is culling 'imperfect' paranormals from the human herd is interesting, and potentially compelling.  Unfortunately, Luiken has a somewhat fragmentary writing style that creates unnecessary confusion, and interferes with an otherwise effective story.<br />The focus of the tale is a group of people who are related through a paranormal parents.  Over time all of them had been adopted by normal families and now were unaware of each other.  Many of the older children had become members of the KithKin Club, an association of psychics was created to protect themselves from a previous effort at extermination.  These children and young adults, the Carver family, as well as their closest relations and loved ones make up most of the cast of the book.<br />KithKinners have many talents.  Most important, and the ones that drive the book is the ability to sense danger, and 'shine' which allows the possessor to influence the people around him or her.  Then there are seers, illusionists, telepaths and even those who can sense the deaths of those they love.  The Carvers, unaware of their relationships have suddenly all come under attack wherever there are, and will need every one of these talents to escape intact.<br />The villain of the piece is The Selector, a psychotic with exceptional mental powers who can invade dreams and steal control of lesser humans.  As a result, not only are the Carvers' at risk from within themselves, they are also subject to attack from unsuspected sources.  The Selector seems to be able to move and strike at will.  He also has the ability to trap a human's consciousness in the recesses of his mind.  If the purpose behind his hunting of the Carvers comes clear only gradually, the horror that follows his victories becomes apparent right from the first page.<br />The flaw in this concoction is that every character gets equal time without warning.  As a result the reader is left the task of trying to integrate eight separate stories into a coherent whole.  Most of us will fail to some degree, and feel confusion as the story switches from viewpoint to viewpoint like a slide projector gone awry.  The sense of chaos never quite goes away and even the end is fragmentary.  Characterization also suffers for the same reason.  The book is readable, but never seems to develop a coherent rhythm.  I kept getting the feeling that it would make a better film than it would a book, probably since the additional visual information would have better differentiated the characters.<br />Luiken shows writing talent but needs more disciplined editing.  I have read several worse, lately, so I'm inclined to be a bit generous and find enough positive value to give it three stars.  I believe the author also writes books for young adults as Nicole Luiken, so perhaps what is lacked is simply the difference between the young adult reader and grumpy old reviewers such as I.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Readerwarning.  As a result the reader is left the task of trying to integrate eight separate stories into a coherent whole.  Most of us will fail to some degree, and feel confusion as the story switches from viewpoint to viewpoint like a slide projector gone awry.  The sense of chaos never quite goes away and even the end is fragmentary.  Characterization also suffers for the same reason.  The book is readable, but never seems to develop a coherent rhythm.  I kept getting the feeling that it would make a better film than it would a book, probably since the additional visual information would have better differentiated the characters.<br />Luiken shows writing talent but needs more disciplined editing.  I have read several worse, lately, so I'm inclined to be a bit generous and find enough positive value to give it three stars.  I believe the author also writes books for young adults as Nicole Luiken, so perhaps what is lacked is simply the difference between the young adult reader and grumpy old reviewers such as I.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Reader	2001-12-07
1743286:US	53082946	R2QXPHI2QOQDA1	0743442482	906586917	The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Coming Through the Mountain Straight At You!!!	I'm not quite sure when I saw the Buckaroo Bonzai film, sometime in the late 1980's.  I don't think anyone is prepared for his or her first encounter with the smooth physicist, doctor, musician, inventor, philosopher, etc, etc, etc, who wanders onto the screen and promptly drives something called a jet car straight through the side of a mountain.  Without a chance for a brath we are in the middle of an alien invasion led by the Mad Dr. Lizardo/John Worfin (I will warn you now that all the aliens are called John, and the good guys are always called things like 'Perfect Tommy')<br />It can honestly be said that, in the intervening decade and a half, I never quite figured out what was happening in this film.  I just knew that I liked it.  This seems to be the typical state of many of the film's fans.  Of course, it was never intended to enlighten, just to please and thrill, which it did a great job of doing.  In addition, the dialog was unbelievable.  Lines like 'hold my thruster,' and 'no matter where you go, there you are' abound.  The closest thing there was at the time to an intelligent reader's comic book.<br />Now I've discovered that the Buckaroo Banzai Rosetta Stone has finally been written.  A new paperback containing not only the entire scintillating story, but a whole insert of color of photos and an introduction by the author himself.  Suddenly, I am no longer one of the perplexed, but one of the cognoscenti.  Now I understand the mystery of Penny Priddy and why a bunch of guys named John wanted to get at her overthruster.  I know who in the blue blazes are the Blue Blazes, and why a scarlet cowboy in mohair chaps was called New Jersey.<br />Of course some questions are best left unanswered.  Such as why the alien police of Planet 10 (the Adders) felt it was necessary to trigger World War III on the Earth to stop the bad guys (the Lectroids).  I would have used their incredible death ray to simply blow up the interdimensional spaceship being built at Yoyodyne Enterprises.  Which shows that I have yet to learn about how to think like an alien (despite the claims of my friends).  One the other hand, this whole book (and the film) wouldn't have occurred if someone had thought of that earlier.  And so we are treated to the entire titanic struggle of B. Banzai to save the Earth.  Complete with commentary.<br />While the book stands quite well without the film, I think it would be scurrilous not so see the film and read the book.  What order you should do this in is up to you.  In retrospect, I thing you should read the book and then invite some unsuspecting friends over to see the film.  During which you can make yourself popular by pointing out all the good parts and giving away the plot.ne Enterprises.  Which shows that I have yet to learn about how to think like an alien (despite the claims of my friends).  One the other hand, this whole book (and the film) wouldn't have occurred if someone had thought of that earlier.  And so we are treated to the entire titanic struggle of B. Banzai to save the Earth.  Complete with commentary.<br />While the book stands quite well without the film, I think it would be scurrilous not so see the film and read the book.  What order you should do this in is up to you.  In retrospect, I thing you should read the book and then invite some unsuspecting friends over to see the film.  During which you can make yourself popular by pointing out all the good parts and giving away the plot.	2001-12-06
1745640:US	53082946	R3KUWIKISU3AHZ	1588468038	695922553	Lay Down With Lions (Year-Of-The-Scarab Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Hunting for Mummy	Having started out well with &quot;Heralds of the Storm,&quot; Andrew Bates has continued this series with the same flair for action and story line that made the first volume a success.  Again, he has managed to avoid the 'academicism' that plagues many White Wolf novels.  Mixing two new character types, Hunters and Mummies, Bates introduces many new ideas, and renews hope for the World of Darkness story world.<br />The story opens with the arrival of Beckett in Chicago.  He is a Gangrel who has run independently for centuries, seeking information on the origins of the vampires.  Unlike the Nosferatu, who are bookish, Beckett does his research by wandering the world interviewing fellow vampires and investigating ancient artifacts.  He has come to Chicago to talk to Inyanga, another Gangrel far older than himself.  She offers a trade.  She will part with her knowledge if Beckett will investigate the Hunters, humans who seek the death of all vampires.  Beckett quickly finds this quest is far more complex than he expected, and in short order he finds himself enmeshed in clan politics, and confronted with mummies and the most ancient of vampires.<br />When Maxwell Carpenter, resurrected as a zombie to carry out his revenge against the Sforza clan, first planned and executed the attack against the Temple of Akhenaton, he expected to face with a professional espionage organization, not find that his next target, Nicholas Sforza-Anhotep, has somehow made the transition to a creature of uncanny powers.  Maxwell managed to overpower Nicholas in that struggle, but now finds that having the mummy is considerably different from controlling him.  Both of these creatures perpetually batter each other, and it is only their supernatural recovery abilities that keep them in the fray.<br />In the midst of this, Thea Ghandour and fellow members of the Van Helsing Brigade are healing their wounds.  Events at the Temple were devastating to her team, leaving two dead and many of the others fugitives.  The brigade is caught in the interplay between Vampire, Zombie, and Mummy, because the canopic jar Thea stole from the temple has become the target of nearly every supernatural creature in Chicago chances.  While Thea has shown considerable skill at beating the odds the Hunters are facing grim prospects.<br />Truthfully, none of the protagonists is in for an easy time.  The diverse factions are all interesting on their own, and it is hard to pick one or two people as favorites.  And every time you think you have a handle on what's really going on something happens to lead you in a different direction.  So far this series is the best that has come out of White Wolf in the past year.  I am looking forward to Volume III and subsequent work from Andrew Bates.rs fugitives.  The brigade is caught in the interplay between Vampire, Zombie, and Mummy, because the canopic jar Thea stole from the temple has become the target of nearly every supernatural creature in Chicago chances.  While Thea has shown considerable skill at beating the odds the Hunters are facing grim prospects.<br />Truthfully, none of the protagonists is in for an easy time.  The diverse factions are all interesting on their own, and it is hard to pick one or two people as favorites.  And every time you think you have a handle on what's really going on something happens to lead you in a different direction.  So far this series is the best that has come out of White Wolf in the past year.  I am looking forward to Volume III and subsequent work from Andrew Bates.	2001-12-05
1746465:US	53082946	RU6OVG7ZFAO86	0061040967	373959935	The Last Hero: A Discworld Fable (Discworld Novels)	Books	5	13	33	N	Y	Chasing the Giant Turtle	Terry Pratchett has been writing books about Discworld since at least the mid-1980's.  From that time on I have loyally followed it's eccentric denizens as they scooted about on the only turtle-powered world in the universe.  Pratchett normally leaves us wondering exactly what it all looked like. Not that he doesn't write good descriptive prose, mind you.  But all those places and characters are enough to severely stretch the imaginations of forgetful folks like me.  While there seem to have been some recently illustrated work, most of it has refused to appear in my local bookstores.  Well, thanks to illustrator Paul Kidby and &quot;The Last Hero,&quot; all that's been fixed.<br />The work in question is a Discworld novella, totaling 160 pages of large print with a lot of illustrations.  Even in this short space, Pratchett manages to put together his usual twisted, acerbically written plot.  Genghiz Cohen the (nonagenarian) Barbarian and his equally Silver Horde have set out for their last quest - to return fire to the gods.  After countless efforts at dying heroically they have decided to force the issue, and intend to use the Discworld equivalent of a hydrogen bomb to do it.  They are aided in this hero-brained scheme by Evil Harry Dread the Dark Lord, the now gray-haired Vena the Raven-Haired (AKA Mrs. McGarry), and bring along a desperately unwilling minstrel to take notes.<br />Earnestly trying to prevent Cohen's immolation of Cori Celesti, the Mountain of the Gods, is an equally motley crew.  The wizards of the Unseen College have appealed to Lord Vetinari, the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, for support in preventing an act which will destroy all magic and shut down Discworld permanently.  Vetinari enlists Leonard of Quirm (best known for dangerous inventions and pictures whose eyes follow you around) to figure out how to get to Cori Celesti in time to stop the Heroes.  Leonard invents the first spacecraft, powered by swamp dragons, and crewed by Leonard, Captain Carrot of the Watchmen, and Ridcully the Inept, one of Pratchett's oldest characters.  Oh, stowaway duties are done by the Librarian, an orangutan wizard.<br />Pratchett is at his tongue in cheek best.  I counted about 10 dire quips on each page, so expect to do a lot of smirking and giggling.  Pratchett has no qualms about parodying himself, and he does so with relish.  The plot, which is great fun, often gives away to the sheer exuberance of being able to say sarcastic and witty things at will.  And fans will spend hours picking out various Pratchett characters and figuring out in which book they first appeared.  Of course, DEATH makes his obligatory appearance.<br />And did I mention the illustrations?  Paul Kidby is the perfect illustrator for Pratchett.  He has a good sense of both the dramatic and the humorous and a detailed colorful style that harkens back to the illustrations on the old witch books.  I never once felt that he had gotten a figure wrong.  This is absolutely the perfect present for a Pratchett fan.  It has a bit of a sticker shock to it.  But for us addicts, it's worth it.  The rest of you should run off to a bookstore where you can snort and smirk for free, and peek at it first.  Then come back and buy it here at a discount.Carrot of the Watchmen, and Ridcully the Inept, one of Pratchett's oldest characters.  Oh, stowaway duties are done by the Librarian, an orangutan wizard.<br />Pratchett is at his tongue in cheek best.  I counted about 10 dire quips on each page, so expect to do a lot of smirking and giggling.  Pratchett has no qualms about parodying himself, and he does so with relish.  The plot, which is great fun, often gives away to the sheer exuberance of being able to say sarcastic and witty things at will.  And fans will spend hours picking out various Pratchett characters and figuring out in which book they first appeared.  Of course, DEATH makes his obligatory appearance.<br />And did I mention the illustrations?  Paul Kidby is the perfect illustrator for Pratchett.  He has a good sense of both the dramatic and the humorous and a detailed colorful style that harkens back to the illustrations on the old witch books.  I never once felt that he had gotten a figure wrong.  This is absolutely the perfect present for a Pratchett fan.  It has a bit of a sticker shock to it.  But for us addicts, it's worth it.  The rest of you should run off to a bookstore where you can snort and smirk for free, and peek at it first.  Then come back and buy it here at a discount.	2001-12-04
1746993:US	53082946	RQYORMMJR1YU7	0789438372	43058581	Cat's Christmas	Books	5	3	3	N	N	And a Happy Meow Year	Every once in a while a reviewer has to do something silly to keep from taking themselves too seriously.  We get in the habit of waxing eloquent over the latest serial killer novel or thinking deep thought about Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and we forget that folks like fun too.<br />So that explains why this reviewer is about to tell you about an out of print stocking stuffer entitled &quot;Cat's Christmas.&quot;  I received it as an early Xmas/Hanukkah present from a dear friend.  Or rather, my cats did.  For some reason they actually like the book and are hanging around now waiting for an opportunity to do their own version of reviewing.<br />I can tell you right now the book is unbearably saccharine, Starting right out with two sealpoint Siamese kissing under the mistletoe.  From there, undaunted, it runs the gamut of silly cat jokes, menus, and sight gags.  If your cat is one of the more philosophical kinds then he or she may find this booklet beneath them.  I believe my female is making that comment when she sits on the volume.<br />But my male, the more softhearted of the two, is every bit as softhearted and sweet-tempered as are the cats in the book, so he is right here, helping me type this review.  Hopefully we will all take the time this holiday to give little silly things as well as the big expensive toys.  And not just to out cats.	2001-12-04
1748169:US	53082946	RNOM8HXEK43L8	0789471450	516889679	Ken Hom's Foolproof Chinese Cooking	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A Step Past the Basics	I started cooking Chinese food in college, when a wok and a handful of inexpensive ingredients made the perfect student's dinner - cheap, fast, and tasty.  Since that time I have extended my repertoire as one regional style or another became popular.  There are an embarrassing number of Chinese cookbooks on my shelves, and most have countless stains and injuries from their kitchen adventures.<br />Chinese cookbooks are often either too complicated or too simple.  Since it is a cookery that is much more than following recipes, it takes some time before the theory sinks in and confidence builds.  Books that are too simple make reaching this level impossible.  Those that are too complex require too much study when, after all, what we really want to do is cook and eat.  When a friend gave me the simple volume I first suspected that this was one of the simple variety, but as I read through it I realized that this slim book was something else entirely - a perfect balance.<br />The sections of the book are typical for the genre, ingredients and equipment, soups and first courses, fish and shellfish, meat and poultry, vegetables and side dishes, menus, and a good index.  Each section takes you through recipes both simple (fried wonton, caramel walnuts) to moderately complex (hot and sour soup, spring rolls).  For the adventurous there is Peking duck and Cantonese crab with black bean sauce.  The instructions are clear as a bell, and the presentations and photography are gorgeous.<br />Ken Hom has a remarkable set of credentials as a popularizer of Chinese and other Asian cooking.  I count four cookbooks in addition to this one, several BBC TV series, and other, similar credentials.  If the cover is to be believed, he has sold something over a million cookbooks.  His writing style is crisp and clear, the recipes are precise, and the book's production standards are absolutely top notch.  &quot;Foolproof Chinese Cooking&quot; was written as a companion book to the PBS television series GREAT FOOD.  It is the perfect gift for the cook who is interested in branching out beyond the basic stir fry.on series GREAT FOOD.  It is the perfect gift for the cook who is interested in branching out beyond the basic stir fry.	2001-12-03
1748785:US	53082946	R2TC826KK0VXYD	0688174574	695846125	Blindsighted: A Novel (Dr. Sara Linton)	Books	4	37	41	N	Y	Unexpected Treat	What initially attracted me to &quot;Blindsighted&quot; was the violence of its beginning.  Even in a genre noted for the horrific, this tale wastes no time in firing with both barrels as Sara Linton, coroner of a sleepy, conservative Southern town enters a diner's restroom to discover the aftermath of a bloody and brutal attack on a local college professor.  The woman dies in Sara's arms, and the subsequent autopsy reveals a crime almost baroque in its complex horror.<br />Sara's role forces her to deal with her ex-husband, Police Chief Jeffrey Tolliver.  This unwilling partnership must confront its own issues while trying to deal with a second murder, even more gruesome than the first.  Also part of the hunt is Detective Lena Adams, sister of the first victim.  Torn by her own grief and a sense of powerlessness, the crimes seem to eat away at her, stretching her ability to retain control of her personal and professional life.  The three find that they are dealing with a deranged serial killer that not only tortures and molests his victims, but then leaves them to be found at the edge of death.  For Sara the deaths seem to be an impossible message from the past.<br />Each of the players, including the invisible killer, has some defect or injury which makes them vulnerable.  As the lens shifts back and forth from Sara to Jeffrey, then to Lena, then back again, it is the fine detail of their personalities as much as the complex forensic work that first hides and then finally reveals the roots of the killer's motivation.  Much of what makes &quot;Blindsighted&quot; work is the adeptness with which Karin Slaughter combines a complex and fast paced plot with unusually well developed main characters.  Sara Linton, Jeffrey Tolliver, and Lena Tolliver are all given loving attention.  If you think this means that some of the minor characters are too sketchy, you will be much surprised.<br />Wherever you look, this is a detail rich story.  It lives up to it's billing as a Southern mystery story, not simply by hiding behind stereotypes, but in allowing the reader to experience the conflicts that lie under the surface of a rural South that is only steps away from it's urban counterpart.  Nor are these factors peripheral to the tale.  It is remarkable to encounter a first novel where the author as conscious of the part each fragment will play in the whole as is Karen Slaughter.  While nothing is ever perfect, there is nothing here that is amateurish.  This is something fresh and original for those who thought that the serial killer was past its peak.uthern mystery story, not simply by hiding behind stereotypes, but in allowing the reader to experience the conflicts that lie under the surface of a rural South that is only steps away from it's urban counterpart.  Nor are these factors peripheral to the tale.  It is remarkable to encounter a first novel where the author as conscious of the part each fragment will play in the whole as is Karen Slaughter.  While nothing is ever perfect, there is nothing here that is amateurish.  This is something fresh and original for those who thought that the serial killer was past its peak.	2001-12-02
1755859:US	53082946	R3JS936TZVQCU1	0425182150	239822085	Perish Twice (Sunny Randall)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Improper Bostonian	I have been a Parker reader for long enough to accumulate some 30 volumes.  No surprise that I am a Spencer fan.  I like the punch and jab of his sarcasm and the pacing of the stories.  I've also enjoyed the Jesse Stone books for slightly different but comparable reasons.  &quot;Perish Twice&quot; is something a bit unusual, a male writer choosing to write about a woman detective.  I am sure this has happened before, but, in my limited experience, it is never completely successful.  In contrast women writers often do a remarkable job with male investigators.  Hopefully the reason for this lies in some difference between the sexes that I am unable or unwilling to define, rather than in some defect of my own.<br />&quot;Perish Twice&quot; is the first Sunny Randall story I've read, having missed &quot;Family Honor,&quot; its predecessor.  Sunny starts out investigating her sister's husband who has suddenly started philandering.  Once you've met Elizabeth Randall you will understand that this doesn't come as a surprise to Sunny.  Of course, he is doing exactly that.  And Sunny spends a fair amount of time extracting herself from her sister's many attempts to get even and get another man.  Elizabeth refuses to consider independent life a viable option.<br />Sunny has also agreed to act as bodyguard for Mary Lou Goddard, a rather intense and typecast lesbian feminist who runs a research bureau and is being stalked.  When it turns out the stalker is a man Mary Lou picked up in a bar, and Mary Lou's research assistant turns up dead at her office the plot shifts gear as Sunny tries to investigate and gets fired for her efforts.  To make matters more complex, Sunny finds herself having to deal with Tony Marcus, an organized crime kingpin who runs a stable of prostitutes.  &quot;I like you&quot; he says to Sunny, &quot;but if I have to I'll kill you.&quot;<br />On top of this are various pieces of Sunny's personal life.  Her friend Julie who is having marriage problems.  Her unfinished relationship with her ex-husband (regular Wednesday dates), and her deep and abiding love for Rosie, the miniature bull terrier.  Sunny wisecracks her way through it all somehow until she gets shot at herself and then she starts to play for keeps.  Sunny is a bright, entertaining character with a knack for irritating the bad guys while she's trying to figure out who the good guys are.<br />But it didn't quite work for me.  Parker actually does a good job of giving Sunny an independent personality that is more than a female Spencer.  But in a book full of sexual types and stereotypes, Sunny's own sexuality, while never in doubt, is somewhat unconvincing.  Couple this with the fact that Parker goes out of his way to make things easy for her and we might have some of the reasons that I can only give this book a weak four star rating.  It's written too well for me to brush it off with 3 stars, but you need to give this some consideration before you buy it.  In any case, I'm glad I waited for the paperback rather than snapping up the hardcover.unfinished relationship with her ex-husband (regular Wednesday dates), and her deep and abiding love for Rosie, the miniature bull terrier.  Sunny wisecracks her way through it all somehow until she gets shot at herself and then she starts to play for keeps.  Sunny is a bright, entertaining character with a knack for irritating the bad guys while she's trying to figure out who the good guys are.<br />But it didn't quite work for me.  Parker actually does a good job of giving Sunny an independent personality that is more than a female Spencer.  But in a book full of sexual types and stereotypes, Sunny's own sexuality, while never in doubt, is somewhat unconvincing.  Couple this with the fact that Parker goes out of his way to make things easy for her and we might have some of the reasons that I can only give this book a weak four star rating.  It's written too well for me to brush it off with 3 stars, but you need to give this some consideration before you buy it.  In any case, I'm glad I waited for the paperback rather than snapping up the hardcover.	2001-11-27
1759892:US	53082946	R27CV3EY0Z5WZ5	078601153X	715744091	Blood of my Blood (Vampire Legacy, #4)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	She Who Steals My Good Name...	After a gap of four years, Karen Taylor has brought out another volume in her series about the life of vampire Deirdre Griffin.  This is something of an occasion, since the original volumes were quite successful in their time.  Most of the series thus far is set in modern New York City, although parts of &quot;Blood of My Blood&quot; happen in New Orleans.  In a genre where vampires are getting decadent faster than they are aging, Taylor's vampires are almost refreshingly ordinary.  Although, perhaps, 'less weird' is a more honest description.<br />The book is narrated at first by a woman who you discover is Lily, not quite a human, and not quite a vampire.  In fact, Lily is the child Deirdre was pregnant with when she became a vampire.  The child did not survive the change, and everyone assumed she was dead.  Instead, she regained consciousness, and as a tiny child clawed her way out of the grave.  Lily has been nurtured and protected by a line of voodoo witches, living in New Orleans, but nothing has been able to overcome her sense of abandonment.  When a vicious killing takes both her current 'maman' and her dearest friend, Lilly decides that it is time to seek revenge on the woman who deserted her 150 years ago.<br />Deirdre, and her lover Mitch, have fled civilization and are happily ensconced in a cabin in Maine.  Suddenly trouble starts to happen.  Mitch starts to experience nightmarish dreams.  These are the creation of Lily, who has allied herself with Victor, a vampire who has no reason to love Deirdre.  When the dreams cause Mitch to seem to want Deirdre's death she temporarily flees the cabin.  Lily, who is the image of Deirdre, then puts into action the next part of her plan.  She steals away with Mitch, and indeed intends to steal all of Deirdre's life before exacting her final revenge.<br />When Deirdre returns to the cabin, unaware of Lily's existence, she discovers everything is gone, and is torn between her human love for Mitch and her vampire's need to destroy him for the insult.  Deirdre returns to New York, aided by her friend Sam, to solve the mystery of Mitch's disappearance.  As the narration shifts back and forth from Deirdre to Lily one realizes that neither of these women is really a monster, but have been forced into adversary roles by their mistaken beliefs and the accidents of fate.  Now the two women hurtle toward a confrontation which not only may destroy themselves, but others they love as well.<br />One of the reasons that I like Karen Taylor's efforts is that her characters aren't driven out of a sense of romanticism or ghoulishness.  Rather, they are vampire 'people' living their somewhat unusual and complicated lives.  Deirdre and her fellow vampires behave as if they had personalities - character instead of caricature.  Deirdre is still working out what being a vampire means to her, as is Mitch and her other companions on this dark journey.  This makes the tales absorbing and believable without the theatrics that other authors often use.  I found &quot;Blood of My Blood&quot; quite readable despite a lapse of several years since reading its predecessors, but I would still suggest reading the earlier novels if they can be found.ed to destroy him for the insult.  Deirdre returns to New York, aided by her friend Sam, to solve the mystery of Mitch's disappearance.  As the narration shifts back and forth from Deirdre to Lily one realizes that neither of these women is really a monster, but have been forced into adversary roles by their mistaken beliefs and the accidents of fate.  Now the two women hurtle toward a confrontation which not only may destroy themselves, but others they love as well.<br />One of the reasons that I like Karen Taylor's efforts is that her characters aren't driven out of a sense of romanticism or ghoulishness.  Rather, they are vampire 'people' living their somewhat unusual and complicated lives.  Deirdre and her fellow vampires behave as if they had personalities - character instead of caricature.  Deirdre is still working out what being a vampire means to her, as is Mitch and her other companions on this dark journey.  This makes the tales absorbing and believable without the theatrics that other authors often use.  I found &quot;Blood of My Blood&quot; quite readable despite a lapse of several years since reading its predecessors, but I would still suggest reading the earlier novels if they can be found.	2001-11-24
1760519:US	53082946	R1GL2VO8U9ECTW	0375413227	723539103	Pain Management: A Burke Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Deadly Alliances	Like a harsh, lonely blues song, this latest chapter in the dark tale of Burke leaps up and spreads itself across the background of Portland, Oregon.  This is the city Burke has adopted since his apparent death, when his desire for revenge drove him from New York City to the Pacific Northwest.  I've been to Portland.  It is a beautiful city, with rivers in its heart and Mount Hood in its sky.  But Burke's Portland is another place entirely, one where loss and betrayal send it's less fortunate denizens on a never-ending quest for pain management.<br />Unlike his life in New York, Burke is nearly alone in Portland, and lacks the support system that made his ghostly lifestyle possible.  His primary company is now Gem, a professional smuggler who acts as his 'wife.'  Burke has few friends.  He is uncomfortable with this dependent state, and is trying to develop a local reputation, but it is slow going.  When Gem finds him an assignment looking for Rosebud, a young girl who has disappeared, Burke throws himself into the chase.<br />On the surface it appears that Rosebud is a simple runaway, but Burke's persistent investigation uncovers contradictions and mysteries.  And the more he tries to unravel the puzzle the deeper he is drawn in.  Soon he finds that the search for Rosebud has put him on a collateral quest to aid a group of people dedicated to helping others escape intolerable pain.  The plots intertwine and enmesh and in the background Burke's increasing difficulties with Gem play in counterpoint.  It is as if, when Burke tries to put down roots in Portland, he finds the ground salted and dry.<br />This is a noir story in the best sense.  Underneath appearances there are layers and layers of further deception.  Until finally we discover that the truth was never out there, but inside instead.  Vachss sends Burke on a quest that will determine his future, and places a spotlight on the inner nature of a man who is part hero and part demon.  The prose work in &quot;Pain Management&quot; is some of Vachss finest.  He paints scenes and characters with the brushwork style of Japanese master painters.  In many authors this would be considered sketchiness, but somehow Vachss manages to draw the reader in, so that the book unfolds in one's mind rather than on the page.<br />The reader may find this book too sudden an introduction to the Burke series.  It is not entirely dependent on the need to know more of Burke's history but the knowledge gained from reading work earlier in the series will increase the readers ability to participate.  At the least, one should be familiar with &quot;Dead and Gone,&quot; which explains how Burke has come to Portland.n Management&quot; is some of Vachss finest.  He paints scenes and characters with the brushwork style of Japanese master painters.  In many authors this would be considered sketchiness, but somehow Vachss manages to draw the reader in, so that the book unfolds in one's mind rather than on the page.<br />The reader may find this book too sudden an introduction to the Burke series.  It is not entirely dependent on the need to know more of Burke's history but the knowledge gained from reading work earlier in the series will increase the readers ability to participate.  At the least, one should be familiar with &quot;Dead and Gone,&quot; which explains how Burke has come to Portland.	2001-11-23
1760815:US	53082946	R1S52L2M01QNLF	0788789813	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Book 1)	Books	5	61	73	N	N	Viva Voce!	Writing yet another review of &quot;The Fellowship&quot; is a bit like adding icing to a thousand layer cake.  No matter how well written, it is highly unlikely that I could add anything new to the richly deserved kudos that Tolkien's efforts have received in the decades since they first appeared.  I have read and re-read these works countless times since I first encountered them when I was in high school, which was back sometime around the invention of fire.<br />I'm not going to even attempt to describe the contents of the volumes other than to state that it is the tale of a great journey and an even greater quest to free the world of a great horror.  It shows how there is no such thing as the least or the greatest, and that all have terribly important tasks to do.  Tolkien's tale combines fantasy within an ethical and moral framework to create a story that has value for every age group.<br />Over the years, my perception of the books has changed considerably.  MY first few readings where in childlike (or hippy-like) wonder, and then, over the years, I have become more conscious of the works as literary efforts and some of the wonder has worn off.  But even so one cannot but be amazed by the amount of scholarship and effort that went into making &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; an epic which deeply touches almost everyone who comes into contact with it.  On the negative side, though, I found in my latest re-reading that the language seemed a bit more overblown and stilted than I remembered.  Unfortunately, that one piece of the gloss had worn off a bit.<br />Recently, looking for some tapes to listen to during a long trip, I came upon this set, narrated by Rob Inglis.  It was very nicely priced and just the right length.  I decided to discover what it felt like to hear &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; instead of read it.  It turned out to be a felicitous decision.  The occasional over-formality of the written text seems to vanish when it is read.  The tale takes on an entirely different flow, and I found myself much amazed by all the adventures and trials that the four hobbits faced.  In a way, the spoken Ring is a completely different work.<br />Rob Inglis does a remarkable job of reading.  He manages to produce enough different voices to keep the many speakers separate from each other.  I think the reading would have benefited from having additional readers, but Inglis does a fine job nonetheless.  Except, unfortunately, when he sings.  As much as I enjoyed hearing the many songs of Tolkien for the first time, Rob Inglis is not a singer.  He can carry a tune alright, but there is something just a bit unmusical about it.  Not enough to detract from the total effect, but enough to cause a wince now and then.  Even so, this was a surprisingly enjoyable experience.  Recommended to all who seek a different experience of a wonderful old tale.on an entirely different flow, and I found myself much amazed by all the adventures and trials that the four hobbits faced.  In a way, the spoken Ring is a completely different work.<br />Rob Inglis does a remarkable job of reading.  He manages to produce enough different voices to keep the many speakers separate from each other.  I think the reading would have benefited from having additional readers, but Inglis does a fine job nonetheless.  Except, unfortunately, when he sings.  As much as I enjoyed hearing the many songs of Tolkien for the first time, Rob Inglis is not a singer.  He can carry a tune alright, but there is something just a bit unmusical about it.  Not enough to detract from the total effect, but enough to cause a wince now and then.  Even so, this was a surprisingly enjoyable experience.  Recommended to all who seek a different experience of a wonderful old tale.	2001-11-23
1761644:US	53082946	R3FMOERG00WKG2	1563052849	954632299	Cat: Seventeenth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	72	74	N	Y	Twenty-seven Years and Still Purring	I bought this book by accident.  Well, not really, but I allowed another reviewer to seduce me into buying the new Kliban Cat Calendar and I saw this book listed as well on the calendar's detail page.  I saw the words 'anniversary edition' and decided to order it.  It was only after I received it that I discovered that seventeenth anniversary of &quot;Cat&quot; was in 1992, two years after Kliban's death.  So 2002 is really the 27th anniversary.  All that being said, I want to state that this little book would be fantastic no matter what it's age is, or what the age of it's reader is either.  I love this book.<br />There, I've said it, this crusty old man goes all soft hearted when he leafs through a 25 year old book of cat cartoons.  As well he should!  Kliban captures something entirely different from other feline cartoonists.  They aren't kitten cute, nor are they wicked Garfields, as Art Spiegelman points out in his introduction.  Instead they are the light hearted chubby denizens of a world of whimsical, good natured self-interest.  They relax at the beach, dream of the stars, and steal cheese sandwiched with equal aplomb.  They exchange traditional concepts of cat beauty for an enticing comfyness which only a cat lover could understand.<br />Love is an important and operative word in this little volume.  Not one of Kliban's cartoons is made at the expense of cats.  Instead, each opens a door to the essential nature of our furry friends, and the non-judgmental affection that they display to those in their circle of trust.  A snarl turns into a lick, a meow into a purr and then all is well.  Kliban is the only artist I know who has managed to really capture the feline Mona Lisa smile.  You know, the one that cats use to melt their owners.  Cats forgive with a grace from which us humans could learn a great deal.  And Kliban captures it all.  Many of the cartoons are not really cartoons, but innocent studies of the artists own cats, drawn with genuine affection.<br />Art Spiegelmann, artist and author of MAUS, provides a short and delightful introduction to the anniversary edition, and there are 16 pages of Kliban's color work for our further delectation.  Everyone who likes cats needs to have this book around.  Placed somewhere so that it will fall to hand in those irritating moments when we need to look at cats in order to remember what it is to be human.r />Art Spiegelmann, artist and author of MAUS, provides a short and delightful introduction to the anniversary edition, and there are 16 pages of Kliban's color work for our further delectation.  Everyone who likes cats needs to have this book around.  Placed somewhere so that it will fall to hand in those irritating moments when we need to look at cats in order to remember what it is to be human.	2001-11-22
1763117:US	53082946	R1U8WFKONKKSDB	0451458443	922158521	Grave Peril (The Dresden Files, Book 3)	Books	5	26	31	N	N	Ghostbusters, The Novel	It should come as no surprise to the followers of Harry Dresden, freelance wizard and general dogooder, that Harry starts out the third volume of this series in every bit as much trouble as he ended the last.  After all, Harry's natural state is jumping out of frying pans and into fires.  Except when he is looking for another frying pan to fall out of.  This time the book opens with Harry and a new friend, Michael (a Knight of the Sword and even a bigger dogooder than Harry) racing to stop Agatha the ghost, who has a bit too much affection for infants.  Without fail, Harry fumbles the attack and Michael and he must pursue Agatha into the Nevernever.  In the process of putting Agatha away Harry has a run in with his dysfunctional fairy godmother and barely manages to escape with all his body parts.<br />Michael and Harry have been chasing down disgruntled ghosts for weeks now, and finally Harry has come to believe that this isn't just a series of coincidences.  Instead, someone is deliberately stirring the ectoplasm with evil intentions.  But Harry barely has time to discover this when he is visited by two vampires, who go out of their way to irritate him while delivering a formal invitation to the elevation of Bianca St. Claire to the position of Margravine of the Vampire Court.  You may remember Bianca from &quot;Fool Moon.&quot;  She was the vampiress Harry managed to make a deadly enemy of in the first 15 minutes of their meeting.  Harry may be slow witted, but even he knows that Bianca's plans include making Dresden au gratin.<br />So he refuses the invitation, right?  Well, not quite.  A wild series of ghostly attacks, bespelled friends, and damsels in distress ensue.  Harry, a class act as usual, manages to lose Michael's magic sword, fail the damsels, and barely keep his friend's alive.  It is only a matter of time before the ever-widening swath of disasters leads Harry straight to Bianca's soiree and Harry-splatting party.  And does Harry get splatted?  You bet.  It is characteristic of this story that the question Harry gets asked most often is &quot;What happened to you?&quot;  And these are just the highlights of the quiet part of the novel.<br />Jim Butcher has once again concocted a unique mix of comedy and horror,  In doing so he has created an entirely new genre, which I call 'noir vaudeville.'  Bad things keep happening, and the life-span of one of Harry's friends seems to be about a week, but you can't help snickering and moaning.  Perhaps because Harry generally deserves everything that happens to him.  But you do have to feel sorry for Michael and his wife, Harry's girlfriend Susan, and most of the Chicago police force.  And don't forget poor Bob the sex-fiend in a skull, who gets a serious workout this time and no fun.  Butcher ends &quot;Grave Peril&quot; on a 'to be continued' note, which means we can look forward to even more misadventures from the career of the most hapless wizard in the Midwest.  Let's hope Harry has good medical insurance.bet.  It is characteristic of this story that the question Harry gets asked most often is &quot;What happened to you?&quot;  And these are just the highlights of the quiet part of the novel.<br />Jim Butcher has once again concocted a unique mix of comedy and horror,  In doing so he has created an entirely new genre, which I call 'noir vaudeville.'  Bad things keep happening, and the life-span of one of Harry's friends seems to be about a week, but you can't help snickering and moaning.  Perhaps because Harry generally deserves everything that happens to him.  But you do have to feel sorry for Michael and his wife, Harry's girlfriend Susan, and most of the Chicago police force.  And don't forget poor Bob the sex-fiend in a skull, who gets a serious workout this time and no fun.  Butcher ends &quot;Grave Peril&quot; on a 'to be continued' note, which means we can look forward to even more misadventures from the career of the most hapless wizard in the Midwest.  Let's hope Harry has good medical insurance.	2001-11-21
1763752:US	53082946	R2DRUY6UVJEX3C	0451204123	161070434	The Association	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Straight Is The Gate	It is always an unpleasant surprise when an author you though had considerable talent turns out a novel that is a ringer.  Bentley Little, with several successful novels and a Bram Stoker award to his credit is a writer I would normally believe was a dependable writer of inventive horror.  But his latest work, &quot;The Association,&quot; badly misses the mark.<br />The plot is quite straightforward.  Barry Welch, a horror writer, and Maureen, his wife, a successful tax accountant, have decided to escape their Southern California urban lifestyle and move to the gated community of Bonita Vista, Utah.  One of the things that make Bonita Vista special is that it is on unincorporated land, and, as such, has great latitude about its rules and bylaws.  Considerably more latitude than Barry and Maureen ever could have expected.<br />Unfortunately, from that little tidbit of description, one can pretty much guess the entire plot.  For some 400 pages, the Welch's go from one confrontation with the Association to the next.  The Bonita Vista board of directors moves from dirty tricks to mayhem and beyond in an ever-escalating and predictable whirl of sadistic behavior.  From premise to grand finale, Bentley Little seems fixated on endless repetitions of the same plot device.  The Welch's attempt to deal with the latest confrontation, a sense of hope is allowed to develop and is then smashed down by the next malicious application of the rule book.  At a certain point (about page 100) I found the reading excruciating, and had to force myself to finish that book.<br />Perhaps Little created &quot;The Association&quot; out of a desperate need to fulfill a publishing contract.  My personal theory is that he was driven to write this as an attempt to get even with his own association.  Whatever the reason, I'm afraid many readers will find this novel a great let down.  Little himself seems to have been half-hearted in the writing.  Even obvious opportunities to generate scares and physical horror are barely exploited.  Outside of the limbless 'stumpies' that wriggle through the woods occasionally, there is nothing that is horrible or frightening.  Little could have done better, even with the shallow plot with which he chose to work.  Instead, we are given a work where the strongest reactions will be frustration and pulse-pounding tedium.<br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Reader.comysical horror are barely exploited.  Outside of the limbless 'stumpies' that wriggle through the woods occasionally, there is nothing that is horrible or frightening.  Little could have done better, even with the shallow plot with which he chose to work.  Instead, we are given a work where the strongest reactions will be frustration and pulse-pounding tedium. <br />Marc Ruby for The Mystery Reader.com	2001-11-20
1771524:US	53082946	R396AWJR6ZA15U	0451458125	54721316	Fool Moon (Dresden Files)	Books	5	102	118	N	N	On a Dark and Wandy Night	After reading the first in this series &quot;Storm Front&quot; I had come to believe that the comic ineptness of Harry Dresden, the only wizard in the Chicago phone book (or any other phone book for that matter) was due more to the inexperience of the author than it was intentional.  At that time, I thought the basic premise of the plot was serious.  After all, people die when Harry gets things wrong.  Well, it appears that I was wrong.  Jim Butcher has clearly created one of the strangest wizards in detective fiction.<br />Actually he is a wizard/gumshoe with the kind of do-gooder streak that is a cinch to cause trouble.  In this volume Dresden is trying to solve a serial killer problem which seems to involve several different kinds of werewolves.  These range from nasty people who think they are wolves right up to the honest-to-God tear-you-and-all-your-friends-to-pieces loup-garou.  Inevitably Harry goes into each struggle well armed with wands, charms, and even guns.  And inevitably he drops or loses all of them.  In fact your first warning that Harry is going to get flattened again is when he points his magic wand.<br />One of Harry's skills is the ability to alienate almost everyone.  So this time Harry is not only dodging werewolves, he is also being chased by Chicago's number one gangster and all of the local FBI.  Nor are the local cops fond of him.  After the FBI manages to capture the loup-garou and lock him in a police holding tank, Harry manages to not get to the police station quite on time.  Before Harry can do anything most of the occupants of the building are dead.  What does Harry finally do?  He blasts an invincible werewolf straight through the station's walls and several nearby buildings before setting him down so that the wolf can escape.  Not too bright is our Harry.<br />Sooner or later you give up and start chuckling.  Despite Harry's continual insistence that he is one of the 12 best wizards in the U.S., only the gangster really wants Harry on his side, and that's because he thinks Dresden would make good wolf bait.  Which is a mistake.  Harry's real talent is sheer unmitigated luck, without which he would be a wolf dropping somewhere in the Illinois woods.  Everyone else, however, has to fend for themselves.<br />Despite my sarcasm, this isn't a bad book by a long shot.  It just isn't quite what one is lead to expect by the cover.  If you can handle occult slapstick and a bit of grim humor you will find &quot;Fool Moon&quot; great light reading.  The plot is non-stop, Butcher's narrative abilities have improved, and the characterization is what you would expect from this kind of work.  I wish Butcher has spent more time on Harry's oversexed skull assistant, but there's always the next volume for that.on his side, and that's because he thinks Dresden would make good wolf bait.  Which is a mistake.  Harry's real talent is sheer unmitigated luck, without which he would be a wolf dropping somewhere in the Illinois woods.  Everyone else, however, has to fend for themselves.<br />Despite my sarcasm, this isn't a bad book by a long shot.  It just isn't quite what one is lead to expect by the cover.  If you can handle occult slapstick and a bit of grim humor you will find &quot;Fool Moon&quot; great light reading.  The plot is non-stop, Butcher's narrative abilities have improved, and the characterization is what you would expect from this kind of work.  I wish Butcher has spent more time on Harry's oversexed skull assistant, but there's always the next volume for that.	2001-11-14
1774744:US	53082946	R1XIP692WP5O7Z	087951941X	543132694	Freddy the Pilot	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Up In The Sky!  It's a Pig!	It is only inevitable that the indefagatible Frederic Bean, bank manager, newspaper owner, detective, and overall pig extraordinaire should also become an ace barnstormer.  How this comes to be is the subject of &quot;Freddy the Pilot&quot; a 1952 effort by Freddy's creator Walter R. Brooks.  It all starts when Boomschmidt's Stupendous and Unexcelled Circus returns to Centerboro a bit early so that Mr. Boomschmidt can enlist Freddy's help in solving a dilemma the circus is in.<br />The star of the circus is the beautiful Mademoiselle Rosa, a bareback rider whose grace and ability are part of the Circus's special magic.  Unfortunately, Watson P. Condiment, a very rich, but not particularly nice, comic book publisher has fallen in love with Rosa.  Despite her refusal to encourage him, Condiment is fixated on his goal.  So intent is he that he is more than willing to destroy the Circus entirely in order to propel Mademoiselle Rose into his arms.<br />The nefarious Mr. Condiment has tried many rotten tricks to close the Circus down, but the worst is having a plane dive bomb the Circus, blasting the audience with flour bag bombs.  Mr. Boomschmidt keeps having to return the crowd's ticket money and is in great danger of going broke.  Freddy summons his courage and decides to beard the mystery pilot in his den.  Our pig shows up at the local air field and takes flying lessons.  Soon he has his own plane and is preparing for his counter attack.<br />Freddy, assisted by his partner Mrs. Wiggins, a troop of Robin Hood-like skunks and the Horrible gang of scurrilous rabbits mount the effort designed to save the Circus and rescue Mademoiselle Rosa.  The reader can count on a great deal of fun and excitement as one villain after another is rousted and sent on his way.  The ingenious plot will even involve the U.S. Army and Uncle Ben's astonishing combination bomb sight and piggy bank.<br />Once again we are treated to a lovable adventure which teaches by example rather than lecture.  The reader quickly finds out that courage, respect, and teamwork are the keys to success and happiness in Centerboro and the Bean Farm.  Although late in the series, &quot;Freddy the Pilot&quot; can stand on its own without losing the reader.  Kurt Wiese's original illustrations, always a treat, are exceptional in this volume, making it will worth its reasonable price.ure.  The reader quickly finds out that courage, respect, and teamwork are the keys to success and happiness in Centerboro and the Bean Farm.  Although late in the series, &quot;Freddy the Pilot&quot; can stand on its own without losing the reader.  Kurt Wiese's original illustrations, always a treat, are exceptional in this volume, making it will worth its reasonable price.	2001-11-12
1775209:US	53082946	R2RFHILJVCHJKM	0451457811	823834280	Storm Front (Dresden Files)	Books	4	342	367	N	N	The Thaumaturgic Gumshoe	This is the first volume in a recent series that has a bit of an unusual premise.  Harry Dresden, the 'anti-hero' of the book is a detective who is also a licensed wizard.  Unlike Randall Garrett's Lord Darcy, however, Harry is more of a gumshoe than an aesthete.  He's like a combination of Phillip Marlowe and Glen Cook's Garrett, P.I.  Think of him as a magic wand with an attitude.  A thirty pound cat with half a tail and an oversexed skull in his basement don't help his image either.  He makes a thin living finding the lost and helping the police, despite being the only wizard listed in the Chicago Yellow Pages.<br />Dresden, broke as usual, answers a police call for assistance, and discovers a gruesome double murder.  The two victims, caught in flagrante delicto, have had their hearts blown out through their rib cages.  Detective Karrin Murphy wants answers fast, but Crime boss Johnny Marcone wants Dresden out of the case.  Dresden's other case is searching for a missing husband who seems to have had an unhealthy interest in magic.  And the last complication is the White Council, who think that Harry Dresden just might be dipping a little to far into the black magic side, and intend to flatten him if there is any further hint of magic abuse.<br />Harry is a bit of a luckless sort.  In attempting to question the vampire hostess of an upscale house of ill repute he makes a serious enemy of what could best be described as an old bat.  One of his information sources then turns up dead the same way as the first couple.  A demon nearly turns him and his date into pudding and a giant scorpion attempts to take out Detective Murphy and Dresden with one swipe of a very deadly tail.  And, without fail, Harry is pestered at every step by an obnoxious representative of the White Council.<br />Unfortunately, as either wizard of gumshoe, Harry is a bit hapless.  He knows his stuff, but he is forever forgetting his gun, dropping his staff and getting ambushed by bad guys.  As a result he is always coming from behind, which is a bad place to be when you are chasing the black wizard who is saturating the city in a dangerous new drug that not only gets you high, but opens your third eye as well.  Harry is more of the rush right in where angels fear to tread type than he is the careful planner.  It doesn't help that he has a bit of a hero complex as well.<br />Ok, the magic is a bit hokey and the language is slightly overblown.  Other than Harry the characters are right out of a cheat book.  Even Harry is a bit hackneyed.  But the plot is original and well laid out.  Narrative skills come with maturity, and Jim Butcher is still a novice storyteller.  In a wave of tedious, repetitive genre tales, &quot;Storm Front&quot; stands out as something worth a second look.  It will be a while though before I forgive him for the following tidbit.  &quot;...he picked me up to hurl me toward the demon.  I objected with fragile tenacity.&quot;result he is always coming from behind, which is a bad place to be when you are chasing the black wizard who is saturating the city in a dangerous new drug that not only gets you high, but opens your third eye as well.  Harry is more of the rush right in where angels fear to tread type than he is the careful planner.  It doesn't help that he has a bit of a hero complex as well.<br />Ok, the magic is a bit hokey and the language is slightly overblown.  Other than Harry the characters are right out of a cheat book.  Even Harry is a bit hackneyed.  But the plot is original and well laid out.  Narrative skills come with maturity, and Jim Butcher is still a novice storyteller.  In a wave of tedious, repetitive genre tales, &quot;Storm Front&quot; stands out as something worth a second look.  It will be a while though before I forgive him for the following tidbit.  &quot;...he picked me up to hurl me toward the demon.  I objected with fragile tenacity.&quot;	2001-11-11
1778417:US	53082946	R3UE1MQVGXTRXU	0312879016	577960303	More Than Mortal (Renquist Quartet)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Castles in the Night	This is Mick Farren's third effort in a series that focuses on the adventures of Victor Renquist, the 1,000 year old master of a vampire nest in Los Angeles.  Farren's vampires are the results of alien genetic experiments about 15,000 years ago, but are otherwise fairly traditional.  While not particularly averse to religious symbolism, they can be destroyed by light and must sleep during the day.  Taken as a subculture, they are a weird and degenerate group, ranging from Victor's suave style and manners to half insane Scotsmen who go on regular blood rampages.  For the most part they are not 'evil' but they have no particular feelings of remorse about using people for their regular diet.<br />In this tale Victor is called to England to help with a curious problem that has overtaken a troika of female vampires.  These creatures are Columbine Dashwood, a regency beauty who has a severe intelligence problem; Marieko Matsunaga, deadly as both Japanese courtesan and swordswoman; and, finally, Destry Maitland; who has spent much of both her life and her unlife as a mercenary.  Destry possesses Dormandu, an Uzbek, the incredibly rare hereditary steed of the warrior vampires.  The problem Victor has been called on for is that digging at a nearby archeological site has started to awaken something that has begun to affect the women's dreams, especially Columbine.  Anything that can do that is a threat that can't be ignored.<br />Victor arrives to discover that the dig hides the resting place of an ancient Urshu, known as Taliesin the Great Merlin.  The Urshu were a creation of the same aliens that bred the vampires.  They were considerably more powerful than vampires, especially in powers of illusion and are able to work in daylight.  Nor do they require the normal vampire diet.  The Urshu were created to help protect humanity and so are often opposed to their vampire relatives.  To add to Victor's problems, Fenrior, the vampire Laird of a huge clan of Scottish vampires is also much interested in the waking Urshu.  He will stop at nothing to get control of the Merlin and discover its secrets.<br />Reader's used to the frantic action of the average vampire thriller will find Farren's work a bit of a different experience.  &quot;More Than Mortal&quot; moves at stately pace and takes the time to dwell on its characters and the settings in which they move.  I find this a refreshing change from the paperback that can be gulped down in a handful of hours and just as quickly forgotten.  The lover of characters will enjoy the return of Lupo, the master assassin, the self-centered empty-headedness of the fair Columbine, as well as the cold, calculating Renquist.  Not that there isn't plenty of action, it just doesn't all happen at once, if you know what I mean.  It would never be considered dull or bloodless.  The book stands well on its own, but the reader would benefit from having at least read the first in the series, &quot;The Time of Feasting.&quot;lso much interested in the waking Urshu.  He will stop at nothing to get control of the Merlin and discover its secrets.<br />Reader's used to the frantic action of the average vampire thriller will find Farren's work a bit of a different experience.  &quot;More Than Mortal&quot; moves at stately pace and takes the time to dwell on its characters and the settings in which they move.  I find this a refreshing change from the paperback that can be gulped down in a handful of hours and just as quickly forgotten.  The lover of characters will enjoy the return of Lupo, the master assassin, the self-centered empty-headedness of the fair Columbine, as well as the cold, calculating Renquist.  Not that there isn't plenty of action, it just doesn't all happen at once, if you know what I mean.  It would never be considered dull or bloodless.  The book stands well on its own, but the reader would benefit from having at least read the first in the series, &quot;The Time of Feasting.&quot;	2001-11-09
1780368:US	53082946	R2DTOL017S23G4	0743411889	303779516	Original Sins: Lost Slayer Serial Novel part 4 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	All That Is Lost Can Be Restored	Those that have been following along know that the previous episode of this series (&quot;King of the Dead&quot;) ended with Buffy in hot pursuit of Rupert Giles through the cellars of Sunnydale's City Hall.  Giles, turned into a vampire by the Bat God Camazotz has become a master vampire.  Under his control the blood drinkers of Southern California are preparing to take over a sizable chunk of the Southwest.  For Buffy, suddenly thrust forward into this time to share her own body with her five years older self, this is a confrontation she absolutely cannot afford to lose.  But it is one she will hate to win.<br />I'm not going to play at maintaining suspense by not quite telling you she is going to win this battle.  Win she does, but at tremendous cost in energy and lives.  And Buffy quickly discovers that this is to be only the first of many struggles.  The future she is in came about as the result of an error she made five years back.  She must find out what her mistake was and undo it if there is to be any way of unmaking the horror and returning a better future to the world.  Buffy and Willow combine efforts to discover the error and to find a way for Buffy to return.  Buffy's trials are hardly over, and if the final end is not in doubt, it still offers a titanic and moving end that is much different than from Buffy's usual tales.<br />Right away the reader will sense that there is more to this story than being yet another Buffy tale.  The characters are vivid, sharply drawn by Christopher Golden's.  Willow is stronger, Xander is etched by loss and struggle, and Buffy, after 5 years locked in a cell, is tougher and more determined than ever before.  As events force Buffy into self examination and new understandings she provides more than just her usual woman-in-charge role model.  She demonstrates deeper values of friendship and commitment that make this a great story for all ages.<br />Golden has very much outdone himself this time.  The pace of action, which builds constantly over the four episodes, never seems to flag.  He has found new ways to use and work with all his characters and maintained a steady stream of surprises and inventions.  My only regret is that this was published in four parts rather than as a single 500 page offering.  Thus the price a bit higher than it need be, although I would not have quibbled at the price even if the publishers had chosen to issue this as a hard cover.  At least then I wouldn't have had to way three months for the conclusion.  Highly recommendedbuilds constantly over the four episodes, never seems to flag.  He has found new ways to use and work with all his characters and maintained a steady stream of surprises and inventions.  My only regret is that this was published in four parts rather than as a single 500 page offering.  Thus the price a bit higher than it need be, although I would not have quibbled at the price even if the publishers had chosen to issue this as a hard cover.  At least then I wouldn't have had to way three months for the conclusion.  Highly recommended	2001-11-07
1783857:US	53082946	R241S88QWIGCGB	031220891X	665352242	The Great Game: A Professor Moriarty Novel (Professor Moriarty Novels)	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Moriarty Triumphant!	Michael Kurland is one of those authors that sneak up on you.  One finds one of his books, enjoys it, and then one day you find another, and so forth.  Until one day you are surprised to notice that you have accumulated quite a lot of his work.  Kurland doesn't write the kind of double-barreled, memorable fiction that sticks in your mind, but he is a grand master of the well written, highly enjoyable tale which is the meat and potatoes of a reader's library.<br />&quot;The Great Game&quot; is the third of a series of novels (&quot;The Infernal Device&quot; and &quot;Death by Gaslight&quot; are the others) that star Professor James Moriarty, Sherlock Holmes nemesis.  Kurland's Moriarty is best described as a sympathetic scoundrel who has been known to indulge in less than savory activities in order to finance his scientific research.  He is somewhat perplexed and irritated to be the subject of Sherlock Holmes overblown belief that Moriarty is the criminal genius of Europe.  But he is quite brilliant, and exudes a fine sense of manners and charm which often, Sherlock Holmes does not.<br />This tale, set in 1891, takes place amidst the precursors and threats which will eventually lead to the outbreak of World War I.  Anarchists and radicals of all flavors plot to bring down the tyranny of the wealthy that they see about them, and the lives of royalty and top politicians are often at risk.  The primary action of the book centers around Charles Summerdane, son of a British noble acting as a spy in Vienna and with two close friends of Moriarty, Benjamin and Cecily Barnett.  Charles is maneuvered into taking the blame for an assassination attempt and the death of his lover.  With Charles imprisoned, Charles father, Duke Albermar appeals to Professor Moriarty to rescue him from the Viennese police without prejudice to Great Britain.<br />The Barnetts, innocently vacationing in Europe, manage to save the Prince and Princess of Rumelia from an attempt on their lives, and then are kidnapped themselves by plotters seeking information about Moriarty.  In the meantime, Sherlock Holmes and the loyal Watson are also in the Vienna area trying to unlock the secrets of various plots before war can break out.  Events in Vienna are a whirl of activity as Holmes and Moriarty form an unwilling alliance in an effort to rescue their friends and keep a shaky peace alive.  The Professor seems to have a trick up every sleeve and Holmes' mind is at its deductive finest.<br />Kurland's characters are classics of that special Victorian world that we associate with Holmes.  Men are gruff heroes or devious villains, and all woman are admirable and often more intelligent than the men.  Kurland has written a delightful period piece as well as a charming addition to the Holmesian cantos.  This is a great cozy up by the fire book, and is well worth the investment.are kidnapped themselves by plotters seeking information about Moriarty.  In the meantime, Sherlock Holmes and the loyal Watson are also in the Vienna area trying to unlock the secrets of various plots before war can break out.  Events in Vienna are a whirl of activity as Holmes and Moriarty form an unwilling alliance in an effort to rescue their friends and keep a shaky peace alive.  The Professor seems to have a trick up every sleeve and Holmes' mind is at its deductive finest.<br />Kurland's characters are classics of that special Victorian world that we associate with Holmes.  Men are gruff heroes or devious villains, and all woman are admirable and often more intelligent than the men.  Kurland has written a delightful period piece as well as a charming addition to the Holmesian cantos.  This is a great cozy up by the fire book, and is well worth the investment.	2001-11-05
1786055:US	53082946	R28XDSYVZF6D62	1569714290	573404773	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 0: The Origin	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Buffy Revisited	Christy Swanson was fine in the BTVS movie, but I'm so used to Sarah Michelle that it would be almost painful to watch the film after all this time.  I like Buffy just the way she is now.  So when I saw that Dark Horse Comics was bringing out a graphic novel version of the original story I decided to live dangerously and purchase my first Buffy 'comic.'  I've stayed away from graphic novels, not because I don't like them, but because they are expensive for the amount of story one gets.  But this looked like a good time to make an exception.<br />I'm not going to spend anytime elaborating on the plot.  If any readers do not know the story of Buffy's entry into Slayerhood, suffice it to say that Valley Girl meets Watcher, discovers vampires, and kills same.  With increasing aplomb.  Buffy as Valley Girl is a bit more irritatingly mindless than Buffy as Slayer, but it's all in good fun.  And, as all of us know, when Buffy grows up, she is as bad as they come.<br />Christopher Golden and Daniel Brereton have done a masterful job of the conversion of the original story line, with plenty of sarcasm, dry wit, and sight gags.  And the art work is simply superb.  If the comics of my jaded youth were as good I would probably never have switched to reading books.  Joel Bennet is the penciller, and Rick Ketcham has completed the work beautifully with the help or Randy Emberlin and J. Jadson.  The images are clear and crisp with a great deal of expression.  Good stuff all around.<br />I still have a problem with sticker shock when looking at graphic novels but I have agree that the end product can often be worth it.  Given what it sets out to be, this is a great gift or collector's item for the Buffy nut of your choice.  Even if that nut happens to be yourself!	2001-11-03
1787429:US	53082946	RA7PSNGQI7MUL	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	4	22	29	N	Y	When a Woman Needs Something to Were	As time has gone on, Laurell Hamilton's works in the Anita Blake series have gotten increasingly hard to review.  Hamilton has gradually shifted from vampire adventure story to gothic romance.  Now with this new novel and its immediate predecessor &quot;Obsidian Butterfly,&quot; Hamilton has shifted from steamy vampire romance to extremely steamy occult romance.  For those of us who have been Hamilton fans from the beginning, the change has occasionally been perplexing.<br />Don't get me wrong, Hamilton's work is way better than the books that used to be in the 'adults only' section of the corner book store.  Nor are they cheap thrillers.  But more and more the plot work of the novels has devolved into two separate threads; one is the occult thriller, and the other is focused on the extreme sexual orientation of Hamilton's monsters and Anita herself.  And the more important the sexy part gets, the less room there is for the thriller part.  For some, this will be a disappointment.<br />&quot;Narcissus in Chains&quot; starts out when Anita discovers that Nathaniel, one of her wereleopards, has gotten himself tangled up in an extreme bondage/torture party and is in danger of not surviving.  The creature throwing the party sets Anita's attendance as the price of Nathaniel's survival.  Realizing that her problem may be over her head, she calls on Jean Claude, her one time vampire lover for help.  Keep in mind that Anita has been celibate for the past six months to avoid having to deal with Jean Claude and werewolf Richard, her other ex-lover.  Anita finally allows Jean Claude to do what he has always wanted to, 'marry' the marks that he, Anita, and Richard the werewolf bear.  This will complete their interconnection and allow each to tap tremendous power.<br />Rescuing Nathaniel turns into a near debacle.  Anita finds herself confronting a vicious werewolf named Coronus and a whole nest of weresnakes.  She succeeds, but is badly injured by the snakes and deeply scratched by a wereleopard who was defending her.  Richard freaks out and imprisons the offending leopard, and Anita looks so bad that the police believe she is dead and arrest Jean Claude.  Anita awakes to find she must rescue both the leopard and the vampire.  She also discovers that the marriage of the marks has given her a few problems.  She has acquired an inner beast, courtesy of Richard, she may very well spend the next full moon as a cat, and, from Jean Claude she has acquired an extreme need and ability to feed off of sex, which the vampires call ardeur.<br />Anita spends the rest of the book rescuing one lycanthrope after another, fighting off a group of deeply sadistic were-creatures and trying not to have sex with almost anything that wanders too near her bed.  This is a pretty tall order, and a few slips are inevitable.  Fortunately for Anita there are a fair number of eligible monsters to take advantage of, including Micah, a very attractive wereleopard king who appears in St. Louis and immediately falls in love with our beautiful necromancer.  Pay attention to Micah, he will appear again.  Most of the other characters will be familiar from previous novels.<br />The writing is up to Hamilton's consistent high standard.  One thing that she clearly understands, it that it takes more than a few juicy sex scenes to make a successful novel.  As such, she has brought more and more skill to bear as the plots have become more sexually involved.  And in doing so Hamilton has pretty much created her own genre, in which she has no real competitors.  The book flows beautifully and is difficult to put down.  Each reader will have to decide for themselves if this is what they want to read.  But no one who reads &quot;Narcissus in Chains&quot; for what it really is will be disappointed.by a wereleopard who was defending her.  Richard freaks out and imprisons the offending leopard, and Anita looks so bad that the police believe she is dead and arrest Jean Claude.  Anita awakes to find she must rescue both the leopard and the vampire.  She also discovers that the marriage of the marks has given her a few problems.  She has acquired an inner beast, courtesy of Richard, she may very well spend the next full moon as a cat, and, from Jean Claude she has acquired an extreme need and ability to feed off of sex, which the vampires call ardeur.<br />Anita spends the rest of the book rescuing one lycanthrope after another, fighting off a group of deeply sadistic were-creatures and trying not to have sex with almost anything that wanders too near her bed.  This is a pretty tall order, and a few slips are inevitable.  Fortunately for Anita there are a fair number of eligible monsters to take advantage of, including Micah, a very attractive wereleopard king who appears in St. Louis and immediately falls in love with our beautiful necromancer.  Pay attention to Micah, he will appear again.  Most of the other characters will be familiar from previous novels.<br />The writing is up to Hamilton's consistent high standard.  One thing that she clearly understands, it that it takes more than a few juicy sex scenes to make a successful novel.  As such, she has brought more and more skill to bear as the plots have become more sexually involved.  And in doing so Hamilton has pretty much created her own genre, in which she has no real competitors.  The book flows beautifully and is difficult to put down.  Each reader will have to decide for themselves if this is what they want to read.  But no one who reads &quot;Narcissus in Chains&quot; for what it really is will be disappointed.	2001-11-02
1788853:US	53082946	R32DDM088YCJUK	0345446976	693427296	24/7	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Reality With A Twist	When I first examined this book prior to reading it I have to confess I was quite sure that I was not going to like it.  It's plot, basically that of a reality TV show gone horribly wrong, sounded almost like a modernized &quot;Friday the 13th,&quot; mostly an excuse for gratuitous violence.  Fortunately, the problem wasn't the book, just some very poorly written advertising copy.  I found my initial impression was quite wrong.  Jim Brown, a broadcast journalist, reveals in his first novel enough talent and imagination to enjoy a promising career as a novelist.<br />The core of the plot is a reality TV show where 12 people will be left on Vassa, a Caribbean island, to struggle against both nature and their own fears.  Extensive broadcasting and communication facilities ensure that the world will be able view all their activities and, by voting, gradually eliminate players until one is left to claim the prize - two million dollars and their heart's desire.  But someone has other plans, and shortly after the show starts a tailored virus kills the show's entire crew, and the 12 contestants find they are playing for the highest stakes, their lives.<br />On-island the most important characters of the 12 are Justin Rourke, a pilot who struggles to find a way to stop the terror and Dana Kirsten, a last minute replacement contestant.  Dana has entered the contest because her daughter is suffering from a degenerative form of leukemia and will die if she doesn't have an opportunity to participate in a new treatment program.  These two quickly join in their efforts.  Don't think that the other contestants are poorly done, though.  Each of them has some quirk or fear that is exploited by the traps built into the island.  My favorite was a mad scorpion stampede, but there is something for every reader's ghoulish streak.<br />Off-island, several threads develop and blend together.  Tucker Thorne, an unknown press photographer, starts out by outsmarting a serial killer who is supposed to be dead and then finds himself in possession of information about Vassa Island that catapults him to a major news career.  Dr. Sherman Lorrik, a specialist on terrorists, is called in by the President of the United States.  His tasks are to find a way to resolve the Vassa crisis and to manipulate the outcome of the now fatal votes.  The government itself must deal with the mystery of the Vassa plague and the islands mysterious ability to defend itself.  For everyone involved this is a race against the clock.<br />The story line is quite complex with a great many imaginative twists and turns.  It is surprising that, with such a large cast, most of the characters are satisfactorily developed.  This is not simply an action story but a tale with plenty of puzzles and thinking to it as well.  Brown gives away very little, and seems to take a great deal of pleasure in misleading the reader.  Expect a lot of red herrings, with a totally outrageous ending.  &quot;24/7&quot; is almost good enough to seem completely believable despite some technical plot devices that are nearly science fiction.  But despite the occasional raised eyebrow this is a very readable book.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readerosed to be dead and then finds himself in possession of information about Vassa Island that catapults him to a major news career.  Dr. Sherman Lorrik, a specialist on terrorists, is called in by the President of the United States.  His tasks are to find a way to resolve the Vassa crisis and to manipulate the outcome of the now fatal votes.  The government itself must deal with the mystery of the Vassa plague and the islands mysterious ability to defend itself.  For everyone involved this is a race against the clock.<br />The story line is quite complex with a great many imaginative twists and turns.  It is surprising that, with such a large cast, most of the characters are satisfactorily developed.  This is not simply an action story but a tale with plenty of puzzles and thinking to it as well.  Brown gives away very little, and seems to take a great deal of pleasure in misleading the reader.  Expect a lot of red herrings, with a totally outrageous ending.  &quot;24/7&quot; is almost good enough to seem completely believable despite some technical plot devices that are nearly science fiction.  But despite the occasional raised eyebrow this is a very readable book.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-10-31
1789423:US	53082946	R118XAJTGLF0Q0	044100783X	430288648	Partners (Laws of the Blood, Book 2)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Magic Makes Strange Bedfellows	&quot;Partners&quot; is the second volume in Susan Sizemore's new series about vampiric Enforcers, the Keepers of the Law as declared by the Strigoi Council.  In it we meet Char McCairn, a recently made Enforcer who has been specializing in research rather than munching on her normal prey, bad vampires.  Her idyllic life in Portland, Oregon is brought to an end by two events.  Helen Bourbon comes to Char to ask her to seek a missing nestling, Daniel, a newborn who was still not in control of his twin thirsts for blood and sex.  The other interruption is Istvan, feared head of the Enforcers.  He gives Char a special assignment -- kill Jebel Haven, a human vampire hunter who was getting too close to the truth.<br />Jebel, after spending most of his life as a violent thug has had a defining moment in a bar in Arizona when a whole town came under attack by the primitive but deadly vampires of the American West.  Now, in combination with fellow survivors Santini and Baker, Haven spends his time keeping the Wild West vampire free.  Lately though, he has discovered the existence of urban vampires and is considering a change in focus.  Hence Istvan's concern.  Then, unexpectedly FBI profiler Brenda Novak shows up in Haven's office and blackmails Jebel into hunting for her missing son, Daniel.<br />No surprise, the missing fledgling and the FBI woman's son are one and the same.  He has been captured by a demon and a sorcerer who are using him as part of a ritual the will grant them eternal life, and slaughter most of Seattle as a side effect.  Istvan, while breaking up a vampire child abuse ring, had to kill or drive away almost all of Seattle's vampires, leaving the city open to the sorcerer's spells, which only Char knows how to combat.  Unfortunately, an ancient treaty makes it impossible for her to take on the demon.  So Char and Jebel are on a collision course, forced by circumstances to work together in spite of inclination and orders.<br />As you might imagine, the story takes many twists and turns on the way to its final, surprise conclusion.  Expect to be intrigued and delighted by a different kind of vampire story.  You will find yourself enjoying a strange mix of characters of whom the vampires are often the most reasonable.  The books in the series have so far been unrelated, although there is some character cross-over in the nature of 'guest appearances.'  So there is no compelling reason to read the books in any particular order yet.  If Sizemore continues her successful efforts this will be a series to remember.ory takes many twists and turns on the way to its final, surprise conclusion.  Expect to be intrigued and delighted by a different kind of vampire story.  You will find yourself enjoying a strange mix of characters of whom the vampires are often the most reasonable.  The books in the series have so far been unrelated, although there is some character cross-over in the nature of 'guest appearances.'  So there is no compelling reason to read the books in any particular order yet.  If Sizemore continues her successful efforts this will be a series to remember.	2001-10-31
1793391:US	53082946	R2P8P6HDX64IAV	0380731150	193589376	Devil May Care	Books	5	81	84	N	N	When First We Practice to Deceive	I think one of the things I like best about Elizabeth Peters is that she clearly believes that reading mystery stories is supposed to be fun.  Of course, there is much to be said for authors that believe otherwise.  But sooner or later I need to take a break and lean back with something by an author who has managed to evade all the Sturm und Drang of modern mystery fiction.  Someone I can trust with my sometimes fragile psyche.  Elizabeth Peters is my all time favorite in this category of 'cozy' tales, for many reasons.<br />Take the book at hand, &quot;Devil May Care.&quot;  The plot work is clean and classical.  Ellie has been asked by her Aunt Kate to house sit while her Aunt takes a trip.  The house is a fine old manse in Burton, Virginia.  Ellie arrives with her fianc&eacute;e Henry, a dull but successful Washington lawyer, to find Aunt Kate clog dancing with a neighbor and deep in football discussions.  After a short interlude Henry and Kate head back to the city and Ellie settles in for the long haul.  Immediately she finds herself surrounded by ghosts.  Aunt Kate's previously unhaunted home suddenly has a transparent young man upstairs, a jilted husband chasing his wife and her lover all over the grounds, a crazy looking red haired woman in the...  Well, you get my drift.<br />Ellie, who is an intelligent and well grounded young woman sets about solving these appearances with the help of Ted Fraser (her Aunt's clog dancing friend) and the very attractive (and not at all dull) Donald Gold, the neighbor's son.  The mystery revolves around the original six families that founded Burton, and an old history book Ellie bought for a gift to her Aunt.  But what it is eludes everyone, even after Ted barely survives a meeting with an irate spirit and the sudden reappearance of Aunt Kate.  The reader is well on his way through this roller coaster ride long before the complexities of the plot finally begin to unravel.<br />What makes this mysterious farce enjoyable is not only a clean and lively plot, but an entire cast of eccentric and wonderful characters.  I greatly admire Peters heroines, who always display a great deal of intelligence and forethought.  Ellie is one of these.  Her Aunt Kate is no less memorable, with a defiantly impish streak.  The male participants, ranging from the very dull Henry to the quick witted Donald are perfect foils for these women.  In addition, all six of the founding families are full of amazing confections and one can hardly leave out the long cast of Aunt Kate's pets, lead by the imperious Roger the Rat and Franklin the Fearless Pekinese.<br />This is mystery fiction intended to be entertainment and little else.  Elizabeth Peters is an expert as mixing archeology, the supernatural, and history with the inevitable foibles of human beings and coming up with story after satisfactory story.  This is perfect fireside reading for one of those rainy fall days around Halloween.  Or for any other time as well.ly a clean and lively plot, but an entire cast of eccentric and wonderful characters.  I greatly admire Peters heroines, who always display a great deal of intelligence and forethought.  Ellie is one of these.  Her Aunt Kate is no less memorable, with a defiantly impish streak.  The male participants, ranging from the very dull Henry to the quick witted Donald are perfect foils for these women.  In addition, all six of the founding families are full of amazing confections and one can hardly leave out the long cast of Aunt Kate's pets, lead by the imperious Roger the Rat and Franklin the Fearless Pekinese.<br />This is mystery fiction intended to be entertainment and little else.  Elizabeth Peters is an expert as mixing archeology, the supernatural, and history with the inevitable foibles of human beings and coming up with story after satisfactory story.  This is perfect fireside reading for one of those rainy fall days around Halloween.  Or for any other time as well.	2001-10-28
1794072:US	53082946	R1Y02U14IY0NN8	0441006604	822090862	The Hunt (Laws of the Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	25	26	N	Y	If Truth Be Told	&quot;The Hunt&quot; is the first in a new vampire series, &quot;Laws of the Blood,&quot; written by Susan Sizemore.  While the series appears to have some similarities with the vampire tales of the Masquerade, Sizemore has put together a vampire milieu that has its own subtle nuances and flavor.  This is an impressive accomplishment in a genre which is perpetually searching for yet another new plot device.  This first volume takes place in Los Angeles.<br />Sizemore's vampires are the strigoi, who follow the dictates of a hidden council, and strigs, who live on their own.  The Strigoi Council sets the rules for public display, the making of new vampires, the hunt for victims, and anything else that effects vampire survival.  Sizemore's vampires rarely need to hunt, since they feed on many human emotions in addition to human blood.  But sometimes the Hunt is a needful thing.  And for the making of vampires, it is required.<br />On the top of the vampire food chain are the enforcers, loners who make sure that the dictates of the council are followed and protect the vampires in their areas of control.  Enforcers don't need to feed on humans at all.  Indeed, they prefer their own kind when they need a snack.  Selim is the Enforcer for Los Angeles.  He is relatively young for a vampire (200 years or so) and must control the city as much by unerring diplomacy as by violence if he is to survive.  The nests he is responsible for contain a fractious and argumentative group of vampires that chafe under the rule of the council and yearn for a more modern and enlightened form of government.<br />Now is come a time when the vampires of Los Angeles need to hunt, and it is up to Selim to provide what is needed.  Hungry vampires are more than usually irritable, and Selim has to balance the need of the strigoi against the need for secrecy, which means that he is at odds with the heads of all the major nests.  In Los Angeles there is another special danger; someone is trying to make a film about the vampire subculture, outing vampires everywhere.  Selim must remove this threat or the hunt will be impossible.<br />Beautiful Siri has been Selim's human companion for almost a decade, her skill at clairvoyance having helped him many times.  But, for the past year, Selim has been avoiding sex and blood sharing with her because he loves her, and is afraid he will need to change her too soon if he isn't careful.  By law, the newly changed must leave their maker.  This might work for Selim, but Siri is badly torn over his apparent rejection.  Torn enough so that she is vulnerable to manipulation who seek the death of Sebastian, dhamphir child of Don Thomas, one of the most powerful of the city's vampires.<br />Half vampire and half human, little Sebastian is the stuff of vampire nightmares.  Istvan, the only other Dhamphir born in the last 500 years, is a legendary enforcer who is the terror of every vampire who has heard of him.  Sebastian is under Selim's protection, but the Strigoi Council expressly forbids the turning of dhamphirs and many vampires would just as soon see Sebastian dead first.<br />Sizemore shows considerable facility in weaving these subplots together into a tight whole.  Selim's quandaries are engaging.  He and his fellow denizens of the dark are believable and sympathetic without losing the horror of what they are.  In a single volume the author lays all of the groundwork for the rest of the series and produces an imaginative dark adventure tale which will leave the reader looking forward to more.ke a film about the vampire subculture, outing vampires everywhere.  Selim must remove this threat or the hunt will be impossible.<br />Beautiful Siri has been Selim's human companion for almost a decade, her skill at clairvoyance having helped him many times.  But, for the past year, Selim has been avoiding sex and blood sharing with her because he loves her, and is afraid he will need to change her too soon if he isn't careful.  By law, the newly changed must leave their maker.  This might work for Selim, but Siri is badly torn over his apparent rejection.  Torn enough so that she is vulnerable to manipulation who seek the death of Sebastian, dhamphir child of Don Thomas, one of the most powerful of the city's vampires.  <br />Half vampire and half human, little Sebastian is the stuff of vampire nightmares.  Istvan, the only other Dhamphir born in the last 500 years, is a legendary enforcer who is the terror of every vampire who has heard of him.  Sebastian is under Selim's protection, but the Strigoi Council expressly forbids the turning of dhamphirs and many vampires would just as soon see Sebastian dead first.<br />Sizemore shows considerable facility in weaving these subplots together into a tight whole.  Selim's quandaries are engaging.  He and his fellow denizens of the dark are believable and sympathetic without losing the horror of what they are.  In a single volume the author lays all of the groundwork for the rest of the series and produces an imaginative dark adventure tale which will leave the reader looking forward to more.	2001-10-27
1796232:US	53082946	R3EXPHGF58WAS4	0879518081	565996713	Freddy Goes to Florida (Freddy Books)	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Starting Out Fresh	This is the re-released edition of &quot;To and Again,&quot; which was the book that started Freddy the Pig on his road to fame.  As such, it will go down in history as one of the great American children's tales.  It is written for all of us who sometimes want to drop everything, leave the irritations of a job, escape difficult conditions, or simply need a change.  It teaches it's lessons of the value of a dream, the nature of adventure and friendship, and the real meaning of home with a characteristic aplomb which will go on to mark all the Freddy books to come, and make them accessible to young and old.<br />Charles the Rooster was depressed.  He was tired of waking up before sunrise to greet the sun,  and he hated the cold winter the would be coming all too soon.  Then a passing barn swallow explained to Charles about migrating and the excited rooster went to work convincing the rest of the animals to go south for the winter.  That wasn't hard, Mr. Bean was a good farmer, but he didn't have the money to keep the barn all warm and cozy.  In no time at all everyone (Freddy the Pig, Jinx the Cat, Mrs. Wiggins the cow, Hank the horse, dogs, ducks, mice and even a pair of spiders) are headed down the road to Florida.<br />They go from one picaresque adventure to another.  They get a bit lost, survive kidnapping, and fall in a few rivers.  The get to meet the President and find gold.  Best of all they reach Florida and spend some wonderful time being lazy and basking in the sun.  There they have the biggest adventure of all.  Wandering in the Big Cypress Swamp the animals are surrounded by alligators and Charles must pull a trick on the Grandfather of All the Alligators to escape the swamp and begin their trip home.  On the way, of course, even more exciting things befall them.<br />&quot;Freddy Goes to Florida&quot; was written before Freddy really became the star of the series, although he plays a big part here, especially for his inventive mind and wonderful songwriting ability.  He is proof that even the chubbiest of pigs is a fine friend and good company.  But the reader, young, or old, will find much to enjoy in each of the characters.  Even the hen-pecked Charles is worth the price of admission.  And the Webbs too, spider-adventurers extraordinaire, will tick your nose too as they ride between Mrs. Wiggins horns.<br />The lessons of this book are simple, yet incredibly important.  That friends are important, that sticking to your word is the right thing to do, and that you are never too small to play a part.  That helping others helps one's self.  And the perseverance reaches its goal. But the best lessons of all come from Freddy's wonderful songs.  &quot;Oh, a life of adventure is gay and free, and danger has its charm; and no pig of spirit will bound his life by the fence on his master's farm....[yet] however they wander, both pigs and men are always glad to get home again.&quot;ting ability.  He is proof that even the chubbiest of pigs is a fine friend and good company.  But the reader, young, or old, will find much to enjoy in each of the characters.  Even the hen-pecked Charles is worth the price of admission.  And the Webbs too, spider-adventurers extraordinaire, will tick your nose too as they ride between Mrs. Wiggins horns.<br />The lessons of this book are simple, yet incredibly important.  That friends are important, that sticking to your word is the right thing to do, and that you are never too small to play a part.  That helping others helps one's self.  And the perseverance reaches its goal. But the best lessons of all come from Freddy's wonderful songs.  &quot;Oh, a life of adventure is gay and free, and danger has its charm; and no pig of spirit will bound his life by the fence on his master's farm....[yet] however they wander, both pigs and men are always glad to get home again.&quot;	2001-10-25
1799961:US	53082946	R24EZFY543Q61W	0441008755	363405363	Companions (Laws of the Blood, Book 3 )	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Officers of the Law	This is the third in a series of vampire stories that focus on enforcers, a vampire form that specializes in carrying out the laws of the vampire council.  Enforcers are special, with additional powers and strengths that aid them in a job which often involves the control and killing of other kindred.  In one other way are enforcers notable.  Their natural food is not us humans, but the vampires that feed on us.  They are the stuff that vampire nightmares are made of.<br />Each volume in the series focuses on some aspect of the special underworld Susan Sizemore is constructing.  &quot;Companions&quot; is about the humans who are part of the vampire world.  Theoretically better than slaves, in most cases there is little to tell of the difference between them.  Like slaves, companions are the vampire's property; the companion's special position comes from having drunk their master's blood.  Eventually, if they survive, they will be made into vampires.  But the vampires powers and the influence of the blood bond turns most of them into little more than obedient servitors, completely subject to their vampire's will.<br />There are exceptions, though.  Selena Crawford, a homicide detective in Chicago, is such.  Two years previous to this book she came into contact with Istvan, a 500 year old enforcer.  Istvan is not just an enforcer, but a dhampire, child of a human and a vampire, making him such a deadly threat that the vampire council has banned making such a vampire ever again.  Tricked into bonding with Selena, Istvan is an unwilling master.  And Selena, part Gypsy, has no intention of being a willing servant.  To avoid perpetual conflict they have been separate for the last two years, ignoring the blood bond to maintain independence.<br />Not unexpectedly, the two protectors of different laws are doomed to confront each other again.  Istvan is dispatched by the council to look into the murder of a vampire in Chicago, and Selena is assigned the same case.  Other than enforcers, vampires cannot kill vampires (or so it is said).  Even for those who know how, killing a vampire is a difficult task.  But in a very short period of time two identical killings occur, and the same chainsaw used to dispatch the two vampires is used to cut of the arm of a third.  Istvan and Serena switch from conflict to love to detection and back again repeatedly as they pursue a trail that leads to Denver and then into the eerie world of vampire politics.<br />Istvan (usually called Steve, nowadays) is your basic super vampire, and his character development is sufficient, but not overwhelming.  His casual sarcastic style is entertaining, but he lacks the depths of Serena's personality.  She is not only a detective and a companion, but witch and gypsy as well.  The Bailey's of Chicago were touched by magic long before coming to America.  Led now by Aunt Caetlyn, Serena's godmother, a spellcaster, and a fine vampire healer as well.  With a background like this it is no surprise that Serena's personality strikes sparks.<br />Sizemore has created an online support group for companions, which is a thoroughly novel idea in vampire fiction.  Indeed, this may be the first vampire tale where surfing the net plays an important part (besides Buffy).<br />While there are some connections between &quot;Companions&quot; and other parts of the series (primarily with &quot;The Hunt&quot;), calling this is a series is still a bit of a misnomer.  The books in this set are completely independent tales.  This is the first volume with crossover characters (Siri, Yevgeny and Jebel Haven).  Yet these characters still only put in guest appearances, albeit important ones.  But one can see how the books are beginning to come together, and there is much promise for the future.n enforcers, vampires cannot kill vampires (or so it is said).  Even for those who know how, killing a vampire is a difficult task.  But in a very short period of time two identical killings occur, and the same chainsaw used to dispatch the two vampires is used to cut of the arm of a third.  Istvan and Serena switch from conflict to love to detection and back again repeatedly as they pursue a trail that leads to Denver and then into the eerie world of vampire politics.<br />Istvan (usually called Steve, nowadays) is your basic super vampire, and his character development is sufficient, but not overwhelming.  His casual sarcastic style is entertaining, but he lacks the depths of Serena's personality.  She is not only a detective and a companion, but witch and gypsy as well.  The Bailey's of Chicago were touched by magic long before coming to America.  Led now by Aunt Caetlyn, Serena's godmother, a spellcaster, and a fine vampire healer as well.  With a background like this it is no surprise that Serena's personality strikes sparks.  <br />Sizemore has created an online support group for companions, which is a thoroughly novel idea in vampire fiction.  Indeed, this may be the first vampire tale where surfing the net plays an important part (besides Buffy).  <br />While there are some connections between &quot;Companions&quot; and other parts of the series (primarily with &quot;The Hunt&quot;), calling this is a series is still a bit of a misnomer.  The books in this set are completely independent tales.  This is the first volume with crossover characters (Siri, Yevgeny and Jebel Haven).  Yet these characters still only put in guest appearances, albeit important ones.  But one can see how the books are beginning to come together, and there is much promise for the future.	2001-10-23
1800022:US	53082946	R3AUZ33WR091X8	0312877951	894141598	No Other Option	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Who Will Guard the Guards?	This engaging combination of military action thriller and police procedural is a first novel by Marcus Wynne, who has considerable credentials in the same fields of expertise as many of his characters.  It pursues an old theme, that of the good soldier gone bad, and does so with a quiet competence that makes it a very convincing read.<br />Jonny Maxwell was once the top member of Dominance Rain, a secret CIA dirty work team.  All of the team are the very best, but Jonny was even a little bit better.  Unfortunately, his tastes also ran to violent sex with unwilling victims.  Finally discovered, Maxwell was sentenced to a long prison term.  Unfortunately, luck and a bit of planning enables him to escape.  Dale Miller, once Jonny's best friend, is assigned to aid a team of U.S. Marshals in bringing Jonny back quickly, before the entire special forces group is exposed.<br />The first part of the book tells the story of Maxwell's escape and the efforts of Dale Miller and the Marshals (led by Jed Loveless) to bring him in.  Miller and Loveless have a love/hate relationship that subtly interferes with the effectiveness of the team.  As the Marshals bicker, Maxwell cut's a grim swath in the Milwaukee area.  Jonny seems to be able to run rings around his pursuit at will.  He engineers deadly bank theft that turns into a major slaughter.  Then he manages to fake his death, fool the Marshals, and leave Dale mystified.  Maxwell isn't just good at what he does, he is deadly, and hates to leave witnesses.<br />The story turns to Minneapolis, the next stop on Maxwell's quest for the resources to succesfully flee the U.S. and set up a new life.  Unfortunately for Jonny (and his victims) his penchant for rape brings him to the attention of Detective Nina Capushek of the Sex Crime Unit.  When Nina recognizes the Jonny Maxwell's signature in a recent rape case she comes into contact with Dale Miller.  Fearing the worst, Dale arrives in Minneapolis and, in very short order, is providing assistance to the Minneapolis police.  The violence escalates and the book proceeds inexorably to its final confrontation.<br />Characterization is just right for this kind of book.  Jonny's behavior unfolds a piece at a time, as the story requires.  Rather than long explanations of his childhood trauma, we are given sudden, sharp insights.  Indeed, Marcus Wynne is what I would call a 'just enough' author.  Each character has just enough detail, there is just enough armament detail to satisfy the military enthusiasm, and just enough violence to keep the reader riveted.  &quot;No Other Option&quot; is far better than just a decent first novel.  We are promised that there is more to come, and I'm looking forward to it.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readerg assistance to the Minneapolis police.  The violence escalates and the book proceeds inexorably to its final confrontation.<br />Characterization is just right for this kind of book.  Jonny's behavior unfolds a piece at a time, as the story requires.  Rather than long explanations of his childhood trauma, we are given sudden, sharp insights.  Indeed, Marcus Wynne is what I would call a 'just enough' author.  Each character has just enough detail, there is just enough armament detail to satisfy the military enthusiasm, and just enough violence to keep the reader riveted.  &quot;No Other Option&quot; is far better than just a decent first novel.  We are promised that there is more to come, and I'm looking forward to it.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-10-23
1803529:US	53082946	R2P2BM2L0HWLN9	0743411870	358857297	King of the Dead : The Lost Slayer Part 3 ( Buffy the Vampire Slayer Series )	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Part 3: The Master Revealed	At the end of Part Two, Buffy is confronted with the unbearable truth.  She has found the Scooby Gang but they have been deeply changed by the vampire war.  Anya, Buffy's mother, and Willows parent's are dead.  Worst of all is that the king of the vampires is no longer Camazotz.  Taken in Part 1 shortly before Buffy's own capture, Giles is now a vampire.  Not just any vampire but the new crowned king, fearsome and subtle and determined to create an empire on this earth.<br />Buffy joins with the rest of the vampire fighters but finds it difficult to reach rapport with the newer members of the team, to whom she is just a legend.  And her old friends don't know quite what to make of her either.  One part of Buffy, imprisoned for 5 years, is colder and calculating.  The other part, the mind of the 19 year old that was thrust forward in time, still loves her friends dearly, and hates what has happened.  Buffy must determine the mistake that has let this future occur, and then find a way back to her past to undo it.<br />Spike, always a rebel, has a confrontation with Giles over the death of Drusilla.  The argument ends when a thoroughly irritated Giles throws Spike out into the sunlight.  Thus it is a badly singed vampire that shows up at Resistance headquarters seeking revenge.  Buffy is in no mood for games, and Spike has a very uncomfortable interrogation.  Then, in short order, she has her first confrontation with Giles.  He is now a master of the very things he once trained her in, and dreams of turning her into his mate, at his side forever.  He escapes, and Buffy prepares for war.<br />The subsequent battle for Sunnydale is a miniature military action, fought by commandos against sun protected vampires, demons, and human conspirators.  The action is furious, as the old team members slip back in synch again.  And the ending is another shocking surprise.  Christopher Golden is completely successful in maintaining a level of excitement higher than several other recent Buffy books, proving himself still a master of Buffy lore.  He portrays the characters with unexpected sensitivity while telling the kind of story that you wish would never really end.  End it does, though, and now you and I must wait impatiently for Part 4.nt Buffy books, proving himself still a master of Buffy lore.  He portrays the characters with unexpected sensitivity while telling the kind of story that you wish would never really end.  End it does, though, and now you and I must wait impatiently for Part 4.	2001-10-19
1804651:US	53082946	R2FO1Y7J139WO2	0812562720	892319855	The Dragon and the Fair Maid of Kent	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Welcome Back to the Middle Ages.	By habit I read more than one book at a time.  It keeps me from getting bored, and sometimes the odd juxtaposition of ideas gives me something unique for a review.  Right now I'm reading a horror story so bad I regret agreeing to review it and a mystery story that makes too great an effort to be literature.  It's slow going at best.  The third volume is (or rather, was) this, Gordon Dickson's fourth in his dragon series.  It took me exactly three days to read this hefty (500+ page) small print book from cover to cover, and I am not a speed reader.  The other books just had to wait.<br /><br />What makes Dickson so good that he has managed to author two major series (the dragon series and the Dorsai series) and innumerable other novels and collections?  Personally I would call it superior plot making, intense dedication to details, and yes, heaps of talent.  Dickson always takes the necessary time to draw his characters out fully, be they James Eckhart the knight/apprentice mage/sometimes dragon who is the hero of the story or the lowly master carpenter who keeps James in everything from chairs to outhouses.  And he goes to know end of trouble to make sure that the reader painlessly acquires enough 14th century lore to make sense out of the goings on.<br /><br />This volume finds James at Malencontri, his castle, trying to cope with both a plague of Plantagenet nobility and the very real plague which is advancing into James part of England.  In addition, Carolinus, James mage master (one of the three AAA+ mages in the world, he'll have you know) is insisting that the King be protected at all costs.  The Plantagenets on hand are Prince Edward the Fourth, the king's son and the beautiful Countess Joan, the Fair Maid of Kent.  All they want is James assistance in a plot to make Edward the Third fond of Edward the Fourth again.  This plot becomes ever more complicated until James finds himself commanded to appear before the King at Tiverton, where Edward III has retired to avoid the plague in London.<br /><br />While this complexity develops James works overtime to prepare Malencontri against the plague.  Since James and his wife Angie are actually visitors from our time who were unexpectedly thrust into the 14th century of an alternate earth, they know something of germs and disease protection.  Since magic will not work on diseases, it is this knowledge which it their only hope.  In the midst of all this confusion and stress, the EcKharts, their closest friends and Hob (the castle hobgoblin) are off to Tiverton to see the King.<br /><br />Thanks to Hob, James is able to discover that an evil plot is afoot at Tiverton.  Goblins, who are spreading the plague in order to take over the world, have slain the real castle staff and are now running it in disguise.  James, due to his commitment to keep the king alive, goes into action.  Since this is less that a third of the way into the book, it should be no surprise that Jim manages to use a small handful of men and knights (plus the unstoppable Hob and his buddy the hob of Tiverton) to completely mop up the Goblins and airlift everyone to Malencontri.  Unfortunately James comes down with both the plague and magickal exhaustion simultaneously.  Does he survive?  Of course!  Does he spend the rest of the book frantically trying to save Malencontri and the rest of England?  You bet, but I will leave the rest of the plot for the reader to discover.<br /><br />With this, ninth, volume in the series, it is getting a bit harder to simply pick up a volume and follow along.  First of all you keep getting the feeling that you have missed several really good books, which you have.  Secondly, there is simply too much background after eight solid novels to present enough information to the reader.  This isn't all bad though, you will get to read several very good fantasy tales.  And if you do wind up reading it first, you will still love it enough to come back to read a second time.  Highly recommended.	2001-10-18
1807179:US	53082946	RC3IXX2K4MT7H	0843948302	995246562	Voice of the Blood	Books	4	43	44	N	Y	Relationships and the Drinking of Blood	The blurb on the back of this book was clearly written by someone who wished to entice the reader, but who lacked time to actually read the book.  As a result a very interesting and unusual approach to vampire fiction is hidden underneath some very vapid commentary.  So if you have looked at the marketing for this little volume and decided it is yet another piece of dumb vampire fiction take my advice and go back and look again.<br />Graduate student Ariane Dempsey and her boyfriend John Thurbis are living a typical academic intellectual life.  The only cloud on the horizon is that John is about to leave for England as a guest lecturer at Cambridge.  They are having the usual difficulties of a couple facing a long separation when suddenly Ariane is catapulted into an unexpected nightmare.  On returning to her lab one night she surprises a 'creature' in the middle of devouring her lab rats.  In a flash it turns on her, and, in the most unusual fashion possible, fulfills its needs with her blood.<br />Ariane awakens in the hospital, recovers, and life goes on.  As John readies to leave Ariane receives a letter of apology and an invitation to visit her intruder.  When John flies to England Ariane has her first meeting with Ricari, the most ethereal of vampires.  Hei is a complete ascetic, drinking only enough blood to survive, celibate, a devout catholic, and, currently, deeply desiring to end his two hundred years of life.  Ariane agrees to help him if only he will share his story with her.  But Ricari's end winds up being infinitely postponed as Ariane and he gradually come to love each other.  But it is a doomed relationship.  Ricari refuses to turn Ariane and continues to be driven by his own death wish.  Finally, in a fit of anger, he injures her so badly that he sends to another vampire, Daniel, to get her out of his life.<br />Daniel repairs Ariane's injuries and introduces her to a lifestyle that is bizarre, even for Los Angeles.  Living in earthquake damaged buildings; Daniel and a crowd of ragamuffin humans who are his followers carry out a lifestyle that is as erotically charged as Ricari's life was ascetic.  There, Ariane meets Lovely, Chloe, Mimsy, and many other eccentric characters that have fled their own lives to pursue existence with a vampire.  Ariane and Daniel become lovers caught in a dance that will inevitable lead through cycles of lust, death, and rebirth.<br />The novel has several levels, the vampire tale, the quest for transformation, and moments that are poetic in a post-modern sense.  But the strongest theme is that of a sexuality which is both raw and rude.  This is a modern gothic romance, and the players refer to their parts by name and function, and do some very unusual things with them.  If you are easily shocked this may put you off of the story, so be warned.  There is still a remarkable femininity to the sexuality, which should come as no surprise, since the story is written and told by a woman.  For the most part I found the approach refreshing and imaginative.  A far cry, however, from the lush sensuality of Anne Rice and Laurell Hamilton.<br />The book has much to recommend it, apart from the note that it is not for children.  I do not know if Jemiah Jefferson will continue to experiment with the horror genre or if she will head off to more experiment zones.  But I can recommend this book, and suggest you keep your eye out for her further efforts.uildings; Daniel and a crowd of ragamuffin humans who are his followers carry out a lifestyle that is as erotically charged as Ricari's life was ascetic.  There, Ariane meets Lovely, Chloe, Mimsy, and many other eccentric characters that have fled their own lives to pursue existence with a vampire.  Ariane and Daniel become lovers caught in a dance that will inevitable lead through cycles of lust, death, and rebirth.<br />The novel has several levels, the vampire tale, the quest for transformation, and moments that are poetic in a post-modern sense.  But the strongest theme is that of a sexuality which is both raw and rude.  This is a modern gothic romance, and the players refer to their parts by name and function, and do some very unusual things with them.  If you are easily shocked this may put you off of the story, so be warned.  There is still a remarkable femininity to the sexuality, which should come as no surprise, since the story is written and told by a woman.  For the most part I found the approach refreshing and imaginative.  A far cry, however, from the lush sensuality of Anne Rice and Laurell Hamilton.<br />The book has much to recommend it, apart from the note that it is not for children.  I do not know if Jemiah Jefferson will continue to experiment with the horror genre or if she will head off to more experiment zones.  But I can recommend this book, and suggest you keep your eye out for her further efforts.	2001-10-17
1807561:US	53082946	R2MH1YFVSKK49T	0679451277	477148263	Back from the Dead	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love to Love You, Leah	McMahon, an aging rock star finds himself with an inexplicable problem.  Years ago, a young woman, nanny to his friends child, died accidentally while the band was in France.  Now, suddenly, he is receiving letters from her.  Letters full of intimate details and knowledge.  Letters which are beginning to threaten his own sanity.  McMahon hires Beau Youselli, a moonlighting police detective, to solve the mystery.  But the past is not to be dealt with so lightly.<br />Youselli is the perfect antihero.  Shallow, in the middle of a divorce, and not quite able to control either his violence or his lust, he provides a chilling counterpoint to the other characters in the book.  All of who seem to play equal parts as victims and victimizers.  For Youselli, there is no truth, only things to take advantage of as he picks away at threads that seem to go every which way.  He despises McMahon, is turned on by women whose lives have become meaningless and boring, and is hopelessly drawn to the writer of the letters.<br />The plot of the story is simple; one pastiche after another of Youselli's almost furtive attempts to find the reality of Leah, the dead letter writer.  What he finds is layer after layer of misdirection and deception.  The truth is so ephemeral and elusive that the detective's own identity seems to take damage as the story unfolds.  Interspersed with these pastiches are the letters themselves, a series of interior monologues from McMahon, and pieces of the story of Edith, an older psychologist Youselli first uses as a resource and then turns into a lover.<br />If anomie, the sense of disassociation, were to be made into a mystery novel, &quot;Back From the Dead&quot; would be it.  Youselli's almost psychotic detachment from the violence he receives and enacts, coupled with his obsessive quest for someone who, if she exists at all would not be for him, provide the impetus for a series of events that only resolve themselves by happenstance.  McMahon's friends, the participants in the accident are all somehow broken or flawed.  They move with a jerky mechanical rhythm which hypnotizes the reader.  Despite the title, there is no hope of rebirth, of redemption here.<br />I am not sure how I feel about this book, whether it is a novel or a mystery story, or whether it succeeds or not.  Chris Petit is an ingenious author, lending credibility to the outlandish, working multi-layered themes, and even using confusion as a plot device.  But I found the literary nature of the book almost distracting.  We are not used to having to think as much as Petit requires in order to absorb his efforts.  I have to give credit where credit is due, the book is well written, atmospheric and chilling.  I will remember more of the story than several I have read recently.  But it is not a novel that I would care to reread anytime soon.participants in the accident are all somehow broken or flawed.  They move with a jerky mechanical rhythm which hypnotizes the reader.  Despite the title, there is no hope of rebirth, of redemption here.<br />I am not sure how I feel about this book, whether it is a novel or a mystery story, or whether it succeeds or not.  Chris Petit is an ingenious author, lending credibility to the outlandish, working multi-layered themes, and even using confusion as a plot device.  But I found the literary nature of the book almost distracting.  We are not used to having to think as much as Petit requires in order to absorb his efforts.  I have to give credit where credit is due, the book is well written, atmospheric and chilling.  I will remember more of the story than several I have read recently.  But it is not a novel that I would care to reread anytime soon.	2001-10-17
1809121:US	53082946	R3206OC3BGXWW8	0451201906	279224818	Storm	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Sudden Horror	When Kate Beauchamp, Detective Chief Inspector of the Aberdeen Police awakens in a sinking ferry boat she faces a night of horror that claims hundreds of lives.  Returning from an amateur theater tour in Norway, and saved only by good luck and the skill of a friend, she arrives back in Aberdeen in a state to be reckoned with.  Unable to feel comfortable alone, she copes by burying herself in work.  The case she finds herself dealing with is a hideous torture murder, the hands and feet cut off, and a black adder tied to the victim's chest.  The second murder is even worse than the first, but good clues are almost impossible to find.  To add to Kate's mental stress, her estranged father turns up as the lead inspector investigating the sinking of the ferry Amphitrite.<br />If Kate Beauchamp is stymied, Frank Beauchamp finds a trail of clues that first seem confusing and then come together to reveal that behind the tragic sinking lies a nightmarish crime.  One that points to unexpected high places.  Everyone involved seems to conspire to keep him from the truth, and the mind behind the crime is willing to kill him to keep its secrets.  This side of the tale will appeal to those that love police procedurals, especially as it includes several underwater trips as well as especially fine detection.  In the end it appears that Kate's troop of amateurs is involved in the sinking.<br />Kate finally decides to get the advice of her old boss and profiler, Red Metcalfe.  Red, for those of you who did not read &quot;Messiah,&quot; was an extremely successful hunter of serial killers who eventually realized that he had gotten a bit too much like his prey.  After murdering a killer in what was nearly self defense he decided to plead guilty and is currently serving his sentence.  Kate borrows him from a maximum security prison and shows him the crime sites and the case records.  Unwillingly, Red provides enough information to make Kate realize that the killer is someone uncomfortably close to her.  The two cases blend into one another and the conclusion is satisfactorily hair-raising.<br />Based on &quot;Storm&quot; and its predecessor &quot;Messiah,&quot; Boris Starling is one of those authors who will inevitably push their sleuths to the edge of destruction, and even beyond that if necessary. He is very adept at developing his characters, and the reader will find themselves nearly as brutalized.  Hopefully Kate will last long enough to provide several more volumes of thrills.  Starling has a habit of using flashbacks to provide insight into the killers mind, which I found a bit tedious early in the narrative, but which smoothed out later.  There are more than enough plot twists and turns to keep the reader guessing even after only a few suspects are left.  I found the book a very enjoyable experience, and look forward to more.  After a short break to recover from all the excitement.close to her.  The two cases blend into one another and the conclusion is satisfactorily hair-raising.<br />Based on &quot;Storm&quot; and its predecessor &quot;Messiah,&quot; Boris Starling is one of those authors who will inevitably push their sleuths to the edge of destruction, and even beyond that if necessary. He is very adept at developing his characters, and the reader will find themselves nearly as brutalized.  Hopefully Kate will last long enough to provide several more volumes of thrills.  Starling has a habit of using flashbacks to provide insight into the killers mind, which I found a bit tedious early in the narrative, but which smoothed out later.  There are more than enough plot twists and turns to keep the reader guessing even after only a few suspects are left.  I found the book a very enjoyable experience, and look forward to more.  After a short break to recover from all the excitement.	2001-10-16
1812273:US	53082946	R103QFXXETXUM4	0738867292	153461031	Change of Heart	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Return of the American Hero	&quot;Change of Heart&quot; is Jack Allen's first novel.  While I do not usually read spy thrillers, I felt a sense of duty to do so this time, since he is a fellow Michigander.  In addition, someone who can call themselves Burping Frog Publishing is worthy of attention, if not respect.  The news is good.  This is an old fashioned spy thriller with all the appropriate parts - evil master spies, beautiful women, a true hearted hero, and all the epic action and violence that a reader could ever ask for.<br />Josh McGowan is the hero in question.  He is part of Naval Intelligence and has spent most of his career doing the hard and dirty work of a field operative.  The opening scene of the book has McGowan busting up an undercover information theft with a chase scene the has him destroy a truck with one car and then bring down a boat with another.  All in a days work for Josh, who has just been ordered to Washington for an even more harrowing assignment.  As part of a protection deal, KGB Colonel Mironov (the nasty of this story) has provided the prison location of Valeria Konstantinov.  She is a spy that US intelligence is anxious to talk to.  Valeria knows the location of Dr. Otto Jones, an explosive expert who is aiding the Communist Party in its effort to retake Russia.  Valeria has been freed from prison and smuggled off the Siberian coast by the CIA.  Josh's assignment is to bring her back to the States.<br />In a series of confrontations with every thing from a destroyer to sharks, Josh barely makes it to Japan with Valeria.  Josh wants to head for the U. S. Embassy, but Valeria is intelligent enough to figure out that she does not want to face interrogation.  Playing on Josh's feelings, the beautiful spy manages to escape him and sets up a meeting with her Russian lover.  Unbeknownst to everyone, Mironov is planning a double-cross and manages to recapture Valeria, who figures greatly in his plans to resurrect Communist Russia.  Josh is caught up in a series of events that will take him to Israel and then back to Russia in his efforts to save Valeria and defeat Mironov's plan.<br />This is a pretty wild tale, long on action, with good solid details.  Characterization, no surprise, suffers in this kind of novel.  But many of the players are painted well, even if a bit sparingly.  I wouldn't hold this against this kind of fiction.  Only John Le Carre is prone to pushing the envelope towards making spy fiction great literature.  The story is far from boring and will carry the reader right through to the end.  My only real complaint is that, while the story reads believably while you are in the middle of it, there are a few places which don't quite make sense in retrospect.  Like McGowan taking the time to erase a disk drive in the middle of a warehouse complex he is shortly going to completely obliterate.  These few idiosyncrasies do serve to move the plot along and are easily forgiven.  I found the book to be great fun, and hope Jack Allen gets to write many more.  Recommended.vents that will take him to Israel and then back to Russia in his efforts to save Valeria and defeat Mironov's plan.<br />This is a pretty wild tale, long on action, with good solid details.  Characterization, no surprise, suffers in this kind of novel.  But many of the players are painted well, even if a bit sparingly.  I wouldn't hold this against this kind of fiction.  Only John Le Carre is prone to pushing the envelope towards making spy fiction great literature.  The story is far from boring and will carry the reader right through to the end.  My only real complaint is that, while the story reads believably while you are in the middle of it, there are a few places which don't quite make sense in retrospect.  Like McGowan taking the time to erase a disk drive in the middle of a warehouse complex he is shortly going to completely obliterate.  These few idiosyncrasies do serve to move the plot along and are easily forgiven.  I found the book to be great fun, and hope Jack Allen gets to write many more.  Recommended.	2001-10-12
1815107:US	53082946	R3HXJW8TYVNKG8	0786012064	637792620	The Vampire Vivienne (Vampire Legacy, #5)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Vampire Legacy	&quot;The Vampire Vivienne&quot; is really the fifth volume in Karen Taylor's Dierdre Griffin tales.  While it is told from the viewpoint of Dierdre's blood sister Vivienne Courbet, it's real intent is to provide some vital background and a smooth transition to the next phase of this vampire series.  As is often the case when an author begins to move in new directions, the story's new focus is not completely comfortable to a regular reader.  This is to be expected, since Vivienne is quite different from Dierdre.  But patience is rewarded, and the story has much to interest.<br />Taylor starts the story in Paris in 1719, when a rebellious young girl, Vivienne, flees from her oppressive home life to the city.  She is both adventurous and exquisitely beautiful, and so quickly finds herself in demand at the House of the Swan, a very upscale bordello.  Soon she meets Max and Victor, the owners of the Swan and, with no resistance at all, they draw her into life as a vampire.  50 years later Vivienne is in Spain with he friends when Diego, her own childe, proves dangerous and must be killed.  In the aftermath of that problem, Vivienne decides to return to Paris, this time as the mistress of the Swam.  The final setting of the Parisian segment is at the beginning of the Reign of Terror.  In sight of the ominous guillotine Vivienne comes to love to others - Monique her secretary, who will become a vampire and then desert her, and Eduard DeRouchard, physician to royalty and doomed to be another victim of the infernal machine of the revolution.<br />In dismay Vivienne flees to the New World.  Many years later, we find her in present day New York.  She has assumed control of the Cadre, an organization of vampires, created by Victor and Max, that serves to provide all its members with the resources and influence needed to survive.  Monique has returned as well, and all is forgiven.  Vivienne is caught up in preparations for a masquerade at her night club, Dangerous Crossings.  The theme of Dangerous Crossings is the same borderline S&amp;M that Laurell Hamilton introduces in Jean Claude's clubs, dark and sexy.  But the atmosphere at Dangerous Crossings is doomed to be short lived, for the masquerade turns into a nightmare that endangers the unliving everywhere.  Vivienne finds herself confronted with an impossible opponent, one that she cannot kill.<br />Despite the temptation to compare,  Karen Taylor's books have little in common with Laurell Hamilton's sexy horror stories or Tanya Huff's occult detective stories.  Her heroines have punch, but they also have considerable finesse.  All of her characters are vivid, and there is little wasted narration.  Taylor also adds a dash of Anne Rice styling to her stories, which is especially visible in the Paris portion of &quot;The Vampire Vivienne.  The entire series is quite readable, and perennially popular with enthusiasts, especially those who like a dash of romance and sex mixed in with their vampire thriller.The theme of Dangerous Crossings is the same borderline S&amp;M that Laurell Hamilton introduces in Jean Claude's clubs, dark and sexy.  But the atmosphere at Dangerous Crossings is doomed to be short lived, for the masquerade turns into a nightmare that endangers the unliving everywhere.  Vivienne finds herself confronted with an impossible opponent, one that she cannot kill.<br />Despite the temptation to compare,  Karen Taylor's books have little in common with Laurell Hamilton's sexy horror stories or Tanya Huff's occult detective stories.  Her heroines have punch, but they also have considerable finesse.  All of her characters are vivid, and there is little wasted narration.  Taylor also adds a dash of Anne Rice styling to her stories, which is especially visible in the Paris portion of &quot;The Vampire Vivienne.  The entire series is quite readable, and perennially popular with enthusiasts, especially those who like a dash of romance and sex mixed in with their vampire thriller.	2001-10-10
1815223:US	53082946	R2CAR64EEGBITW	0671028367	666165371	Deadly Decisions (Temperance Brennan, No. 3)	Books	4	39	39	N	Y	Hell's Angels A La Montreal	When I read both of Kathy Reichs earlier Tempe Brennan stories I enjoyed them very much.  However, something in the cover blurb for &quot;Deadly Decision&quot; put me off though, and I postponed buying it.  A rash of negative reviews on Amazon reinforced this, and I only decided to read this book at last because the next in the series, &quot;Fatal Voyage,&quot; is now out and I wanted to catch up.  While &quot;Deadly Decisions&quot; isn't Reich's best, it is still a well told story.  This is the inevitable plight of good writers that reviewers often over-react when their quality dips.  I've done this myself.<br />The book turns on Tempe Brennan's reactions to the accidental killing of a 9 year old girl during a motorcycle gang killing.  She feels so strongly that she volunteers to be the Forensic Lab's liaison with the police team working on motorcycle gang crime, called Carcajou.  As a forensic anthropologist she is asked to help with the discovery of an old gang slaying site and in doing so also turns up the skull and crossbones of another young girl.  These remains lead her to gang activities back in North Carolina.  Tempe is drawn into a complex, deadly game with high powered, deadly opponents.<br />Tempe is devastated when her lover, Detective Andrew Ryan, is arrested for complicity in the drug deals and illicit trade of the gangs.  Another blow comes when her nephew Kit is also drawn into the gang lifestyle by a newscaster, Lyle Crease, who is also extremely interested in Tempe's laboratory findings.  There is yet another gang-style killing which arouses the anthropologist's suspicions that all is not well.  Now Tempe finds herself in conflict on all sides, with gang members, Kit, and even other members of Operation Carcajou.  She finds herself in danger as well, as the action mounts towards a graveside confrontation of awesome dimensions.<br />I found Reichs' writing up to her usual standard; terse, yet full of the details that make the forensic genre one of the most fascinating of the police procedurals.  There is also a wealth of information on the operation of motorcycle gangs in Canada and the United States.  Characterization is good as well.  Reichs takes the time to breathe life into characters that many other writers would leave two dimensional.  It is this and the fine details that make Kathy Reichs a successful writer.<br />I do have some reservations, though.  As other reviewers have pointed out Reichs has settled into a formula of part Montreal, part North Carolina with a dash of family involvement.  This is the third such story.  While it is not blatant, it becomes noticeable if her novels are read rapidly, one right after another.  Another thing that irritated me a bit was Tempe's knack for doing stupid things under pressure.  This makes her look weak at critical moments, and introduces plot elements that are not really necessary.  Yet, even with these flaws, this is a good, eminently readable novel.  One that turned out much better than I had been led to expect.the most fascinating of the police procedurals.  There is also a wealth of information on the operation of motorcycle gangs in Canada and the United States.  Characterization is good as well.  Reichs takes the time to breathe life into characters that many other writers would leave two dimensional.  It is this and the fine details that make Kathy Reichs a successful writer.<br />I do have some reservations, though.  As other reviewers have pointed out Reichs has settled into a formula of part Montreal, part North Carolina with a dash of family involvement.  This is the third such story.  While it is not blatant, it becomes noticeable if her novels are read rapidly, one right after another.  Another thing that irritated me a bit was Tempe's knack for doing stupid things under pressure.  This makes her look weak at critical moments, and introduces plot elements that are not really necessary.  Yet, even with these flaws, this is a good, eminently readable novel.  One that turned out much better than I had been led to expect.	2001-10-10
1815708:US	53082946	R2I7F1AJ8D0ZO8	158567026X	35471794	Freddy and the Dragon (Freddy the Pig)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	The Fire Breathing Pig!!	I am beginning to realize that I was severely deprived as a young child.  The little corner library where I got my first library card actually had a pretty poor selection of books for young readers.  As a result, I grew up thinking that there were only a few Freddy the Pig books.  Actually Walter Brooks wrote 26 of them.  That makes Freddy every bit the equal of the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew.  Many of these books are out of print now, and hard to find, but The Overlook Press has been gradually returning them to circulation.  Set in the rural Northeast at a time (the late twenties and thirties), the books recall a time when the world seemed simpler and more full of grace.  &quot;Freddy and the Dragon&quot; is the last Freddy novel, published in the year of Brooks death, 1958.<br />Returning from a jaunt around New England, Freddy and Jinx the cat find themselves less welcome in Centerboro then they are accustomed.  Investigation reveals that many of the town's citizens have had property vandalized mysteriously.  Witnesses reported sightings of several animals, including a pig.  Since many people are naturally wary of talking animals, the suspect du jour for the humans of Centerboro is Freddy and some of his friends from the Bean farm.  Our pig hero has no choice but to investigate before he is either jailed or lynched.<br />Freddy is aided by many friends, like Uncle Ben the inventor, J. J. Pomeroy the detecting robin, Samuel Jackson the mole (and professional conscience), and the adventuring spiders, Mom and Pop Webb.  His first challenge is to track down a rogue bull and bring him to justice.  Percy the bull has been doing a lot of the vandalism, but Freddy discovers that Percy, although a member of the gang, is really not a bad fellow, just high spirited.  Once the bull is offered a chance to stay at the Bean farm and learn how to be a gentlemen he provides Freddy with many of the clues needed to track down Jack the gangster and his evil henchanimals.<br />What about the dragon?  Well, when Freddy is terrorized by the headless horseman  who picks up extortion payments he turned to Uncle Ben for help.  After a lot of banging and clanking, Ben comes up with a 3 animal dragon suit that even breathes fire.  Freddy's trusty dragon is used several times to great effect, eventually bringing the nefarious criminals to justice.  This same spirit of inventiveness pervades the entire story and makes it a true delight.  From an atomic car to a spider that uses car headlights to signal, the characters often do the entirely unexpected.<br />As a child I loved these books for the many exotic and wonderful characters, and the enjoyable parts they play.  As an adult, I am surprised at the naturalness and simple honesty of the tales as well.  There are good guys and bad guys, but justice somehow prevails.  People (and animals) have good points and failings, but, on the Bean farm, diversity, mutual respect, and support are the main order of the day.  I can find the foundation of many of my own beliefs in the pages of Freddy the Pig.out the dragon?  Well, when Freddy is terrorized by the headless horseman  who picks up extortion payments he turned to Uncle Ben for help.  After a lot of banging and clanking, Ben comes up with a 3 animal dragon suit that even breathes fire.  Freddy's trusty dragon is used several times to great effect, eventually bringing the nefarious criminals to justice.  This same spirit of inventiveness pervades the entire story and makes it a true delight.  From an atomic car to a spider that uses car headlights to signal, the characters often do the entirely unexpected.  <br />As a child I loved these books for the many exotic and wonderful characters, and the enjoyable parts they play.  As an adult, I am surprised at the naturalness and simple honesty of the tales as well.  There are good guys and bad guys, but justice somehow prevails.  People (and animals) have good points and failings, but, on the Bean farm, diversity, mutual respect, and support are the main order of the day.  I can find the foundation of many of my own beliefs in the pages of Freddy the Pig.	2001-10-09
1819634:US	53082946	R1P2RSMDXLQJ76	055358006X	701522620	Dreams in the Key of Blue	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Mirrors of the Mind	Recently I had the pleasure of reading John Philpin's latest effort &quot;The Murder Channel.&quot;  I was so pleased with the writing style and imaginative verve of that novel that I made a point of ordering his previous book &quot;Dreams in the Key of Blue.&quot;  I am entirely delighted with my decision.  In the serial killer genre there are many imitators, but few minds as innovative as John Philpin.<br />The 'investigator' in the Philpin tales is Lucas Frank, a retired forensic psychiatrist.  He lives in the Michigan woods and avoids unnecessary contact with modern civilization.  He dislikes technology with the passion of a Luddite.  Only occasionally can he be lured out, and never to hunt.  This time he finds himself the guest of Harbor College, an exclusive liberal arts school in Maine.  His task there is to teach a seminar on gender and serial violence for the Woman's Studies Program.  Frank is iconoclastic, irreverent, and even a bit insufferable, but the reader will find him perfect company.<br />Lucas Frank's class has barely started when one of the students and her two room mates are murdered in their apartment.  Frank senses the touch of a psychotic, but the crime presents a bewildering array of possibilities, none of which quite makes sense.  As Frank struggles to fit the pieces together the murderer continues killing.  Frank works closely with Chief Herbert Jaworski, a sincere and thoughtful man with whom he develops a natural rapport.  When the news breaks that Stanley Markham, a killer that Frank helped convict, has escaped, the state police seize on him as the likely suspect.  But Frank is not convinced, and one clue after another leads him to a completely different conclusion.<br />As the case develops Lucas Frank finds himself under double attack, threatened by the killer and under suspicion by the state police and the FBI, who resent his interference.  As he pursues clarity you will me an extensive and rich cast.  In this heady concoction each character, major and minor, plays a particular and gemlike part.  There seems to be little waste in a Philpin novel, but there is still a rich supply of the key ingredients that make an excellent suspense tale.<br />Philpin does an excellent job of creating and maintaining a sense up mystery that persists until the very end.  Several big clues are revealed right up front, and readers worth their salt will have made their guesses and felt very smug, only to retreat in dismay as Philpin unveils layer after layer of deception and misdirection.  But he never cheats, or pulls rabbits out of a hat.  If the killers progress is pure horror, Frank's hunt is pure detection.  Recommendedharacter, major and minor, plays a particular and gemlike part.  There seems to be little waste in a Philpin novel, but there is still a rich supply of the key ingredients that make an excellent suspense tale.  <br />Philpin does an excellent job of creating and maintaining a sense up mystery that persists until the very end.  Several big clues are revealed right up front, and readers worth their salt will have made their guesses and felt very smug, only to retreat in dismay as Philpin unveils layer after layer of deception and misdirection.  But he never cheats, or pulls rabbits out of a hat.  If the killers progress is pure horror, Frank's hunt is pure detection.  Recommended	2001-10-04
1820731:US	53082946	R1I24T3PSJUH1M	0786013826	705795055	Night Blood (Pinnacle horror)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	A Diagnostician's Delight	As I think I've mentioned earlier, I'm not particularly fond of medical vampire tales.  I like my vampires spooky, occult, and demonic.  So things did not start out well when the vampire in this novel explains that he is the result of a mutation of Erythropoietic Uroporphyria mixed with a virus and that he was very particular about his choice of victims because he was afraid of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.  But, technical elaboration aside, it turns out that the vampire in question certainly is spooky and demonic.<br />The tale is told in layers.  The primary story is a third person narrative of the efforts of a team of Houston doctors and police to solve a wave of killings that leave bloodless, tattered victims.  The other layer is a first person narrative by the killer himself.  He is a man who was first infected in 1820 in the woods of Maine, and who has survived for the last 200 years by living very carefully.  He is not a willing hunter, but has become increasingly enslaved to his violent hunger and is desperately seeking a cure.  Whether or not he is a real 'vampire' is for you to decide.  He meets all the basic requirements.  While he can't fly and turn into a bat, stakes through the heart have no effect, nor do various religious items.<br />The team hunting the killer is composed of emergency room physician Matt Carter, pathologists Sheldon Silver and Samantha Scott, Detectives Shooter Kowolski, Sherry Landry and Chief Damon Clark.  This high-powered crew starts out thinking they are chasing a serial killer.  One who has plagued the Houston area for years, and only gradually do they realize that this killer is much more than they expected.  The forensic part of the investigation is well told and believable.  And the characters themselves are sympathetic.  The book has a rare balance between characterization and action.<br />The vampire is a bit too much, however.  Not that he isn't horrific or compelling.  But his powers rest on a series of biological and genetic coincidences, which all occur together in Transylvania, and, honestly, stretch one's belief a bit.  The medical facts play well in the story, but I'm not sure a classical vampire would have been any harder to believe.  As it is, he is much harder to kill, and it is only by sheer luck that the team is even able to hold up until the end.  His may seem to have some grim morals, but he has no interest in dying and manages to pull several fast ones on his opponents and the reader.<br />This is a high sex and gore story, so it will not be for all tastes.  While not completely successful as either a medical thriller or a horror story, it comes very close.  For a first novel it's very well done.  Certainly this is the best effort I've seen at this kind of genre mix, and I hope to see more of Dr. Thompson.tic coincidences, which all occur together in Transylvania, and, honestly, stretch one's belief a bit.  The medical facts play well in the story, but I'm not sure a classical vampire would have been any harder to believe.  As it is, he is much harder to kill, and it is only by sheer luck that the team is even able to hold up until the end.  His may seem to have some grim morals, but he has no interest in dying and manages to pull several fast ones on his opponents and the reader.<br />This is a high sex and gore story, so it will not be for all tastes.  While not completely successful as either a medical thriller or a horror story, it comes very close.  For a first novel it's very well done.  Certainly this is the best effort I've seen at this kind of genre mix, and I hope to see more of Dr. Thompson.	2001-10-03
1822892:US	53082946	R2TFERT2I9TZ4E	1891761145	239989993	Altar Stone	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not With a Bang But a Whimper	Into every reviewer's life a little rain must fall.  I know that not every book I read will be really great (or even just ordinarily great), but I've been pretty lucky lately.  Unfortunately, &quot;The Altar Stone&quot; breaks that streak.  Not that it's bad, it just never quite gets off the ground.  It's hard to pinpoint the exact reason for this, for the raw materials are there, but the narrative lacks any real sense of drama.  It is technically well written, but the prose almost feels like a textbook.<br />The premise of the book sounds quite interesting.  A young boy, Wart, is playing in a rarities store and happens on a set of shrunken heads from Peru.  On a dare, he picks one up and triggers a series of events that leaves him under the control of a being that lives parasitically in the human host.  Called Phaqutl, it had been imprisoned for several hundred years in the head and is now determined to return to the home of the tribe he had ruled.  Unfortunately for Phaqutl, finding himself in the U.S., he has no idea where that is.<br />The story skips forward some twenty years to find Arthur Tomas (the thinly disguised Wart) now a professor of archeology.  He remembers nothing of his childhood.  Phaqutl, sensing that a 7 year old child was useless for his quest, abandoned him for a more able host and erased much of his memory in the process.  Now Arthur is part of an expedition into Peru to investigate several finds.  Unfortunately, their intended site has been destroyed by robbers and the expedition has to return.  By one of those coincidences out of which novels are built, Arthur discovers another set of ruins, but is unable to assemble proof of his discovery.  He must return to the States and seek further help.<br />In the meantime, Phaqutl has inadvertently hopped to a criminal in mid action and winds up in prison.  He uses his time carefully, so that when he accidentally discovers that Arthur has found Phaqutl's original home, he makes his escape.  Posing as a rich benefactor, Phaqutl convinces Arthur to take him back into Peru, and the inevitable plot details ensue.  There are the obligatory beautiful women as well.  Millie is Arthur's smart, beautiful fellow academician, to whom he is almost engaged.  In Peru Arthur finds Beba, an equally smart and beautiful Peruvian villager who also happens to be the host for Coquitla, Phaqutl's mate.<br />I think the reader can imagine the rest of the novel from these details.  Despite what should be the basis for an interesting if not downright exciting novel, the tale as told is lackluster.  The characters are stiff and unsympathetic to the point where it is hard to tell the difference between the monsters and the victims.  The most exciting part of the novel other than the last few pages is when Dr. Tomas is slugged by someone who is making a pass at Millie.  I am reluctant to give the novel a 2 star rating because it is never really bad, just mildly boring.  But truthfully, it's not quite a 3 star book either.  Only recommended for Aztec horror story addicts.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readers a rich benefactor, Phaqutl convinces Arthur to take him back into Peru, and the inevitable plot details ensue.  There are the obligatory beautiful women as well.  Millie is Arthur's smart, beautiful fellow academician, to whom he is almost engaged.  In Peru Arthur finds Beba, an equally smart and beautiful Peruvian villager who also happens to be the host for Coquitla, Phaqutl's mate.<br />I think the reader can imagine the rest of the novel from these details.  Despite what should be the basis for an interesting if not downright exciting novel, the tale as told is lackluster.  The characters are stiff and unsympathetic to the point where it is hard to tell the difference between the monsters and the victims.  The most exciting part of the novel other than the last few pages is when Dr. Tomas is slugged by someone who is making a pass at Millie.  I am reluctant to give the novel a 2 star rating because it is never really bad, just mildly boring.  But truthfully, it's not quite a 3 star book either.  Only recommended for Aztec horror story addicts.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-10-01
1823567:US	53082946	R2JNMEODZ0W8FK	0743411862	931856378	The Dark Times: Lost Slayer Serial Novel  part 2 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Part 2: Five Years Later	Part 2 of &quot;The Lost Slayer&quot; opens with Buffy waking to consciousness in a prison cell five years in the future.  Her consciousness having been thrust forward by her meeting with the Prophet.  For all those years she has been held imprisoned by Camazotz so that a new slayer could not arise.  Faith, the other Slayer has finally been killed at vampire hands, and Buffy finds she is sharing her cell with Faith's replacement, August.  But August does not want to cooperate with Buffy to seek freedom; instead, she seeks Buffy's death.  In a grim battle, Buffy survives and manages to flee the bat demon's prison.<br />And she quickly finds herself in hell.  Camazoztz has used Buffy's immobilization to create the opportunity to pursue the takeover of the world by vampires and their kin.  Sunnydale and the surrounding parts of California are now vampire run.  Humans must either collaborate or cower in their homes.  Buffy finds herself on the run with hot pursuit wherever she turns.  She must survive, discover her mistake, and find a way to undo it.<br />Back in the other Sunnydale Willow and the rest of the Scooby gang must deal with Giles' loss and a Buffy who is behaving very strangely.  By the time they realize the nature of their mistake, the worst has happened and Buffy is captured by Camazotz.  For them the ensuing five years is a continual struggle against a mounting evil.  Each is deeply changed by the struggle and will be hardly recognizable when they meet Buffy again.<br />Part 2 continues the fine work done by Christopher Golden in recreating the Buffy universe and making the impossible real for the many fans of this series.  This is an ingenious plot, and Golden does not miss a chance to heighten the tension or to explore new variations on the vampire theme.  The ending is a complete shocker which will leave the reader wondering how Buffy will ever find a way to save the world and those she loves.	2001-09-30
1824390:US	53082946	R3CYCQ765X410G	0152017178	312307625	Mary Poppins (Odyssey Classics)	Books	5	107	120	N	Y	If you want to find Cherry-Tree Lane...	I have to admit that I cannot completely explain the attraction of Pamela Travers' tale of Mary Poppins, nanny extraordinaire.  But 48 years later, and Julie Andrews notwithstanding, I still found myself nodding and smiling as I read the book.  Strange things just happen around Mary.  You can wander into paintings and travel the world with a magic compass.  Laughter makes you fly and the animals in the zoo will celebrate your birthday if you're nice.  All at Mary Poppins' whimsy.<br />Growing up in the U.S., with no concept of what a nanny was, I still loved her right away.  What is odd about this is that she actually isn't all that likable.  She is quite vain and very, very bossy.  She says 'no' a lot, and rarely stops to explain herself or reveal her secrets.  Yet somehow you know that she will never let you down and she always will do what she says.  Young Jane and Michael (and the even younger twins) couldn't ask for a better guide and protector.  In a family where the father is most often at work 'in the city' and the mother is loving but a trifle inept, Mary is the glue that keeps things working together.<br />The book is actually a series of short tales of a fantastical nature.  Sometimes the tale contains the requisite grain of wisdom and sometimes it is just silly fun.  Perhaps the willingness to be light hearted is what charms young listeners.  In addition to those already mentioned, there is the tale of the dancing cow, and a touching explanation of why we cannot talk to birds.  Even though the book is quite readable for an 8 or nine year old, it is really best for being read to children.  The adventures should be appealing to almost any child and the pen and ink sketches are a delight to look at.<br />If you are considering buying a reprint edition, there is, another reason why the book is best read out loud by a parent.  In 1934, when the it was originally published, a certain amount of cultural insensitivity was common, and while it did harm, it was not really intended to.  In one story, 'Bad Tuesday,' the children travel the world to meet Eskimos, Chinese, Native Americans and Blacks.  While all these people are stereotyped, the description of the Black Africans is atrocious.  People of color will find it quite offensive.  Thanks heavens, in the Odyssey Classics edition this has been remedied.  It is the latter I recommend.<br />It is a relief that there are publishers who understand the value of a wonderful story and will take the appropriate steps to keep it accessible.  Mary Poppins teaches us all that wonder lies behind even the most mundane things.  I expect I will be right there with Michael and Jane waiting for our magical nanny to return.t really intended to.  In one story, 'Bad Tuesday,' the children travel the world to meet Eskimos, Chinese, Native Americans and Blacks.  While all these people are stereotyped, the description of the Black Africans is atrocious.  People of color will find it quite offensive.  Thanks heavens, in the Odyssey Classics edition this has been remedied.  It is the latter I recommend.<br />It is a relief that there are publishers who understand the value of a wonderful story and will take the appropriate steps to keep it accessible.  Mary Poppins teaches us all that wonder lies behind even the most mundane things.  I expect I will be right there with Michael and Jane waiting for our magical nanny to return.	2001-09-29
1827329:US	53082946	R3CZBQXV9D8PDO	0312877714	862678024	Primal Shadows: A Dark Thriller of Papua New Guinea	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Insightful Study of Human Obsession.	Most people know Alan Dean Foster as a prolific science fiction writer with a consistently high quality level.  A smaller group of readers know that he is also capable of great imaginative fantasy, often rooted in exotic settings and myths.  The smallest group of all knows that he is an almost compulsive world traveler with keen observational skills and an ability to turn what he sees into eminently readable fiction.<br />&quot;Primal Shadows,&quot; Foster's latest book is set in Papua New Guinea (hereafter referred to as PNG).  Before reading this book all I knew about PNG was that Michael Rockefeller disappeared mysteriously there.  Foster draws such a fine picture of this country that you almost lose sight of the story.  From lackadaisical Port Moresby to the huge mountains of the West Highland and then back down again through extended marshland where sometimes rivers flow one way and sometimes they go the other, Foster brings the land and it's people to life.  And the most amazing collection of mammals, insects, and reptiles.<br />Really, due to the rainforest climate of much of the country, the natural life of PNG always seems to be the biggest, or the meanest, or the deadliest in the world.  From the 3 pound quoll which has the temperament of a rabid cuisinart (and eating habits to match) to the lawyer vine which, once it grabs you, never lets you go, the environment seems to conspire to shorten the life of the average traveler.  To make matters worse the indigenous tribes are often in conflict with each other and there are rumors of cannibalism.<br />Into this welcoming land comes Steven Bohannon, an American who is fleeing from his past and has circled most of the globe.  Upon arrival in Port Moresby, Bohannon is attracted to a beautiful woman and discovers the next morning that she (Tai Tennison), all his money, and his wallet have disappeared.  Unlike most travelers, who would give up, Bohannon becomes fixated on tracking Tai down.  He befriends Sorley McCracken, who knows Tai and they head into upcountry PNG.  The quest takes them from one remarkable adventure to another even more hair raising.  Bohannon becomes more and more determined with each narrow escape, and McCracken tries ever harder to talk Bohannon out of his quest.<br />Finally they discover that Tai has headed into the worst mountains in PNG after adventurer Ragnarok Stenhammer.  Bohannon manages to hitch a ride from a crazy helicopter pilot and drags McCracken into a confrontation in the complete isolation of Mt. Yogonda.  Stenhammer is seeking gold in the mountains and Bohannon is quickly absorbed into the quest.  I leave you to imagine their adventures and a trip back to civilization which the equal of Clive Cussler's most imaginative tales<br />It says quite a bit about Foster's skill with writing that I like &quot;Primal Shadows,&quot; which is in a genre that normally doesn't interest me.  Readers who do love a pure adventure story will adore this tale.  All of the main characters are engaging, and the bit players have gemlike parts.  This is a classic adventure story and a dynamic, exciting read.  And it is a beautiful introduction to one of the most unusual countries in the world.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery ReaderMcCracken, who knows Tai and they head into upcountry PNG.  The quest takes them from one remarkable adventure to another even more hair raising.  Bohannon becomes more and more determined with each narrow escape, and McCracken tries ever harder to talk Bohannon out of his quest.<br />Finally they discover that Tai has headed into the worst mountains in PNG after adventurer Ragnarok Stenhammer.  Bohannon manages to hitch a ride from a crazy helicopter pilot and drags McCracken into a confrontation in the complete isolation of Mt. Yogonda.  Stenhammer is seeking gold in the mountains and Bohannon is quickly absorbed into the quest.  I leave you to imagine their adventures and a trip back to civilization which the equal of Clive Cussler's most imaginative tales <br />It says quite a bit about Foster's skill with writing that I like &quot;Primal Shadows,&quot; which is in a genre that normally doesn't interest me.  Readers who do love a pure adventure story will adore this tale.  All of the main characters are engaging, and the bit players have gemlike parts.  This is a classic adventure story and a dynamic, exciting read.  And it is a beautiful introduction to one of the most unusual countries in the world.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-09-27
1829575:US	53082946	RD80T3KHPH6MN	0765300346	214429954	War for the Oaks: A Novel	Books	5	52	54	N	Y	Where the Magic's Real...	&quot;War for the Oaks&quot; is the story of Eddi McCandry, who starts the story out playing guitar in Minneapolis bars.  Coming home from the breakup of her last band she finds herself drafted into the oldest of wars.  The conflict waged by the Fay of the Seelie court, the house of light, against the creatures of darkness and the queen of night herself.  Her part is to be that mortal who enables the elves to kill each other, so that the battle will have a final conclusion.<br />Emma Bull's elves are not the sweet folk that inhabit child's fairy tales.  Instead they are the harsh, often cruel yet beautiful folk that frightened our ancestors years ago.  Their manners have no human equivalent and they are cold, passionate, harsh, tender, noble and terrible almost at random.  Into this world Eddi finds her way, guided by the whimsical Phouka who can be dog or man at will, and who dresses himself from an invisible closet of finery.<br />In between the battles and conflicts Eddi assembles a new band composed of her close friend Carla on drums, Dan Rochelle on keyboards, mumbling Hedge on bass and Willy Silver on lead guitar.  Together they become part of the magic and form the base for Eddi's own powers, which she has acquired from her new place in Faerie.  But it will take all the band's power, all that the Seelie court has to offer, and a bit of pure luck besides to win the battle for Minneapolis.  Especially when nothing is quite what it seems.  For if the Fay never lie, they still can twist the truth to the quick.<br />&quot;War for the Oaks&quot; is considerably more than a fantasy tale.  It is also a fine romance.  The elves understand the form of love, but they have little grasp of the content.  Human feelings are a world apart from them.  Eddi McCandry must confront them over this weakness and teach several of them the significance and power of human feelings.  This is romance without ever being exaggerated or cloying, and is what makes the novel so compelling.<br />Emma Bull is not a prolific author.  She has, I believe, four novels to her credit and a fair number of short stories.  Perhaps, because of her pacing, her work is carefully polished.  Settings and characters breathe with remarkable life, and her narrative has tremendous flow.  She draws equally well from legend and her own creativity.  Her only flaw in &quot;War for the Oaks&quot; is that she is not quite sure of herself in her climactic scenes, which causes some slight confusion.  For a novelist in her early phases this is a mere quibble.  &quot;War for the Oaks&quot; is one of the best fantasy stories of its time, and has already become a classic of the genre.r />Emma Bull is not a prolific author.  She has, I believe, four novels to her credit and a fair number of short stories.  Perhaps, because of her pacing, her work is carefully polished.  Settings and characters breathe with remarkable life, and her narrative has tremendous flow.  She draws equally well from legend and her own creativity.  Her only flaw in &quot;War for the Oaks&quot; is that she is not quite sure of herself in her climactic scenes, which causes some slight confusion.  For a novelist in her early phases this is a mere quibble.  &quot;War for the Oaks&quot; is one of the best fantasy stories of its time, and has already become a classic of the genre.	2001-09-25
1831734:US	53082946	RWOU1WI8PUVMI	0743411854	799886898	Prophecies (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Part 1: Buffy Is Warned	&quot;The Lost Slayer&quot; is being brought out as a serial novel comprised of four separate parts of about 130 pages each.  Based on this, the initial volume, we can expect a lot of excitement as must first confront her own issues and then somehow prevent a menacing future into which she has somehow precipitated.<br />Buffy, confronted with college life and her role as Slayer, is overcompensating.  She wants to be a perfect student, a perfect slayer, and, of course, have the perfect social life.  Somewhat wrongheaded, Buffy has decided that she needs to do this without the help of her friends in order to prove her independence, losing sight of the fact that it was their help which made it possible for her to come as far as she has.  Her struggles and discomfort have caused a rift in her relationship with Willow, as well as increased distance from the rest of the Scooby gang.  When a new kind of vampire challenge appears the strain is almost too much.<br />During her rounds of Sunnydale, Buffy finds herself dealing with a new group of vampires that seem to have extra powers.  They are marked by a bat tattoo across their eyes and are more than normally tough to fight.  All she knows is that they work for someone called Camazotz.  Giles and Anya try to track Camazotz down while Buffy tries to conquer increasing numbers of vampires with bat tattoos and orange glowing eyes.<br />If all this wasn't complicated enough for Buffy, she starts having dreams in which Lucy Hanover (a past Slayer) tries to warn her that something terrible will happen because of her.  Lucy is unable to be more specific, and Buffy has no idea what to do.<br />No question but that there is a lot packed into this slim volume, right up to the climactic cliffhanger at the end.  &quot;The lost Slayer&quot; promises to be yet another Chris Golden masterpiece.  If only I didn't have to wait for the remaining parts!	2001-09-23
1832915:US	53082946	R3S6YQWAWCZ2RH	1579651135	458050164	Seductions of Rice: A Cookbook	Books	5	56	61	N	N	Travelogue and Cookbook	Since I have a great love for Asian and Oriental food, I am no stranger to rice in many of its variations.  But my knowledge is fragmentary, and I am guilty of thinking of it as a mechanism for delivering food to my mouth, when the exact opposite is really true.  To be honest, I didn't even know how much I didn't know.  So when a friend confided to me that he had acquired a copy of &quot;Seductions of Rice&quot; I was intrigued.  His description of the book convinced me that I would have to read it and, after some arm twisting, he yielded it up - on temporary lone only.<br />For some reason I was expecting one of those thin lightweight essay books on rice and was amazed to discover this is a large, very well made volume with a great deal of narrative and an immense number of recipes.  The book is full of countless black and white photographs taken by Jeffrey Alford and Naomi Duguid on their rice hunts across the globe.  There are also some wonderful color photographs taken by several professionals of food that looks so appetizing I was gaining weight reading the book.  It is sufficiently well made and protected to last several generations of rice hungry families<br />The narrative text provides many dissertations on the varieties of rice and the cooking thereof, as well as many pastiches about the authors' travels and the people they met.  Often the recipes themselves contain even more narrative.  Much effort has been put into making the book of value intellectually as well as gustatorially.  For the most part it is arranged geographically, with chapters on Chinese, Thai, Japanese, Indian, Central Asian &amp; Persian, Mediterranean, Senegalese, and North American rice cookery.  The obligatory (but often left out) glossary, mail order, bibliography and index sections are also present.  The book is clearly intended to be a working reference and the authors' have spared no effort to please.<br />The recipes are often quite unusual.  The writers have a great love for village, local and family cooking.  As such you will find few of the ornate banquet dinners that are often presented to us in the US.  Instead this is about food cooked by the people who love it the most.  The recipes are clearly printed, with ingredients and alternatives carefully spelled out.  Instructions are easily written, and it is hard to get lost mid-recipe, which is always a concern for someone as nearsighted as myself.  I was delighted with many of them and am inspired to go out and add many bags of rice to my larder.  Of course, I will now have to buy my own copy of &quot;Seductions of Rice.&quot;llage, local and family cooking.  As such you will find few of the ornate banquet dinners that are often presented to us in the US.  Instead this is about food cooked by the people who love it the most.  The recipes are clearly printed, with ingredients and alternatives carefully spelled out.  Instructions are easily written, and it is hard to get lost mid-recipe, which is always a concern for someone as nearsighted as myself.  I was delighted with many of them and am inspired to go out and add many bags of rice to my larder.  Of course, I will now have to buy my own copy of &quot;Seductions of Rice.&quot;	2001-09-21
1833230:US	53082946	R1V00Y02725RSN	094753329X	233459915	Sherlock Holmes and the Long Acre Vampire (Sherlock Holmes Mysteries (Breese))	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The Play's the Thing...	For some reason Val Andrews, while a successful writer in the Sherlock Holmes canon has never really written anything that quite satisfied me.  I'm not sure if it's the shortness of his stories (although Doyle certainly wrote even shorter stories) or some peculiar trick or usage of language and writing style, but they are never quite as convincing as they should be.  Now that I think of it, perhaps the narrative is a bit more ponderous and the action less crisp that of Doyle's.<br />In any case, &quot;The Longacre Vampire&quot; is better than average.  Simultaneously with the opening of Sir Henry Irving's adaptation of Dracula a series of murders starts which have every appearance of being done by a vampire.  Holmes is brought in by the actor/producer to help resolve the murders, which are seriously affecting ticket sales.  While it takes the indomitable Sherlock little time to prove that the corpses died of a broken neck rather than exsanguination, it takes far more time for Holmes to untie all the subterfuge and reveal the true perpetrator of the crimes.<br />Besides the immortal Holmes and Watson only Sholto Lestrade and Sir Henry are fleshed out enough to be considered real characters.  The rest of the book is peopled by the regular stereotypes of British theater and law enforcement.  Given the book's shortness, this is to be expected.  Even so the book provides many interesting glimpses of theatre life in London and Brighton.  Sir Henry is quite a piece of work, and Andrews' Lestrade much more sympathetic than Doyle's own approach.<br />The truth is that very few writers can duplicate Doyle's ability to create a story out of thin air and paint characters with minimalist brush strokes.  Like Sax Rohmer, Doyle has the rare skill of building an imaginary atmosphere which seems more solid than our own reality.  Val Andrews is to be complimented for managing an effective reinvention of past glories and so providing a diverting time to those of us who still delight in the adventures of Sherlock Holmes.n the adventures of Sherlock Holmes.	2001-09-21
1833935:US	53082946	R21W1IT9MAL08A	1590210026	440634798	Vampires and Vampirism : Legends from Around the World (Classics of Preternatural History)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Unlife Before Buffy	I remember discovering monster movies, bag in the days when 50 cents got you into the Saturday show with a bag of popcorn as well.  After watching all the ghoulishness on the screen I would search the used book stores for scary stories, and anything that said mummy or vampire in the title.  Back in those days books like &quot;Vampires &amp; Vampirism&quot; were making their last rounds - worn volumes on the dusty shelves in the back of the store.<br />Written first in 1914, and reprinted in 1924, &quot;Vampires &amp; Vampirism&quot; is a classic example of its type.  The author, a folklorist and specialist in ancient religions and occult beliefs has compiled out of obscure references and records a huge number of legends about vampire behavior.  The book is a confection of such stories, compiled and retold, with the author providing the bare bones framework needed to organize the material and ensure an orderly progression from one to another.<br />Dudley Wright organizes his reports primarily by country or region.  One gets to read of the ancient vampires of Babylonia and Greece, then the scene shifts to Britain, Germany, Hungary, the Balkans, Russia, and the Oriental realms.  He even comes up with some modern material in the U.S.  Wright is less well organized from a historical viewpoint, but his material covers a period from several millennia B.C. to 1923.  Additional chapters discuss the power of excommunication (which is apparently how Vlad the Impaler became Dracula the vampire), living vampires, literary references and a somewhat tedious discussion of whether (or how) vampires existed.<br />While not a great academic study, the book is more like a compost heap of imaginings waiting for the delectation of the curious, or to feed the fertile imaginations of both readers and authors alike.  In digesting it one must keep in mind that, up to the period in which this book was written, vampire literature was still quite scarce.  Whether Dudley Wright and his kind are responsible for the resurgence of the vampire tale as an entire genre I cannot say, but it is a tempting to draw that conclusion.  &quot;Vampires &amp; Vampirism&quot; is full of interesting little facts and twists and is easy, pleasant reading.  For the vampirophile this is one of those volumes without which one's library would be incomplete.  In other words, great fun.responsible for the resurgence of the vampire tale as an entire genre I cannot say, but it is a tempting to draw that conclusion.  &quot;Vampires &amp; Vampirism&quot; is full of interesting little facts and twists and is easy, pleasant reading.  For the vampirophile this is one of those volumes without which one's library would be incomplete.  In other words, great fun.	2001-09-20
1835386:US	53082946	R2LMUO8LA3ECP4	0886775825	962590541	Blood Pact	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Vicki at Bay	One of the most unique things about Tanya Huff's vampire tales is that they are never really vampire tales. Of course, Henry Fitzroy, one of the investigators, is a vampire, but the villains never are. Demons, mummies, and spectacularly deficient humans, but no bad guys with pointy teeth. One has to admire an author who consistently comes up with monsters that make vampires seem tepid.<br />&quot;Blood Pact&quot; opens with Vicki Nelson's worst nightmare. Angry with both Henry and Mike (the other member of their 'love' triangle) she ignores several phone calls from her mother. Suddenly the worst happens, Vicki receives a call from Queen's University where her mother worked. Mrs. Nelson has collapsed at her office, dead of a heart defect. Vicki leaves Toronto for Kingston, full of bitter self-recrimination and at her wits end. Fortunately, both Henry and Mike realize Vicki's state and follow her to Kingston, both determined to help her, and equally determined not to get along.<br />For Vicki the real nightmare starts when she discovers that her mother's body has disappeared from the funeral parlor. Not trusting the Kingston police to give this mystery their full attention, Vicki, driven by her guilt, along with Celluci and Fitzroy, begin their investigation. Stymied by a lack of clues and compulsive driven to keep searching, Vicki comes close to a nervous breakdown. Then, one night, she is disturbed by noises at her window. Outside she sees her mother's face, dead, but somehow horribly alive.<br />Thus begins a mind boggling tale which is more of a medical thriller than an occult mystery story. Driven by greed and growing insanity scientists are experimenting with bacteriological resurrection. Mrs. Nelson is the latest in a series of victims. What follows is a grim hunt for the perpetrators, one that tests every bit of strength that Vicki has. In the meantime one of the creatures discovers a fondness for killing people that disturb its peace of mind.<br />This story is more serious than previous tales of Vicki Nelson, and raises some interesting moral and ethical issues in the context of dealing with the would be Frankensteins and their modern zombies. The cast is small, but intensely drawn. Henry and Mike gain extra depth as they put aside their differences in an effort to keep Vicki from total self-destruction. The scientific and psychological counterpoint is quite a change of pace from Huff's previous novels in this series. While not the best book of the series to start out with, it is certainly an enjoyable read for a regular fan.is more serious than previous tales of Vicki Nelson, and raises some interesting moral and ethical issues in the context of dealing with the would be Frankensteins and their modern zombies. The cast is small, but intensely drawn. Henry and Mike gain extra depth as they put aside their differences in an effort to keep Vicki from total self-destruction. The scientific and psychological counterpoint is quite a change of pace from Huff's previous novels in this series. While not the best book of the series to start out with, it is certainly an enjoyable read for a regular fan.	2001-09-19
1838787:US	53082946	R310XV6SUR1B2A	0345423356	883124959	Hell on Earth	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Perpetual Motion	For some reason I bought this book well after it came out and then let it sit on the shelf for a time before reading it.  Perhaps it was because of the millennial associations the book had in my mind.  It certainly wasn't any doubt of Michael Reaves as an author.  He has been writing for some time, and has always done a solid, workmanlike job.  Having finally read it, I can honestly say that, whatever my reasons were, I was much mistaken.  Certainly, any book that deals with demons and cataclysms will have a touch of the millennial about them, but this book would have worked just as well in 1986 or 2021.<br />The book start's out with a horrific beginning when, in a fashion reminiscent of &quot;Alien,&quot; a demonic child is born to a 15 year old victim of incest.  The demon promptly slaughters all attending the event and disappears.  Quickly, the scene shifts to the Greenwich Village home of Colin, a young and potent mage who discovers he has been robbed.  Three enchanted objects, which together make up the Trine, have been taken.  Without the Trine, Colin's powers are significantly weakened.  While planning his next steps a pounding on the door reveals the angel Zoel, sent from divine dispatching to help Colin along.<br />Across the continent, Terry Dane, a bodyguard, finds himself confronted with an attacker who doesn't register pain, and who likes to shred his victims.  And, in Oregon, Liz Russell witnesses the execution of a serial killer she had written a book about and suddenly realizes that there may be life after death, and it might not like her.  All of these threads come together in a wild sleigh ride through purgatory, hell and beyond.  Colin's 'simple' quest quickly goes sour despite the help the angel Zoel and a friendly demon, Asdeon.  The book is barely started before the reader is creeping through the catacombs of Paris and exploring the site of Dracula's burial.<br />Reaves proves himself quite adept in creating a magical world.  Colin's travels, and his memories of his school days produce many striking images of the occult.  I particularly liked the images of the Scholomance and the scenes at Lake Snagov in Transylvania.  He also draws on a surprising amount of both classical and Babylonian demonology.  For some reason the latter seems unusually popular this year, I believe this is the third book that I've read with some sort of Babylonian bad guy in it.  The plot moves too quickly for there to be much character development, but there is enough to keep character from going flat.<br />Reaves moves between suspense, horror, and sarcastic humor in his writing, which can be jarring at times.  This is the kind of book that is quite easily read in a couple of sittings.  I was expecting something a bit more ponderous or horrible, instead I found I had a high speed tale of occult suspense told with a light entertaining touch.  I am not normally a fan of books which are mostly plot, but &quot;Hell on Earth&quot; is one of the better examples of that writing style.  I enjoyed it right through to it's rather splashy and overdone ending.  I'm even hoping that there might be a sequel some day.and his memories of his school days produce many striking images of the occult.  I particularly liked the images of the Scholomance and the scenes at Lake Snagov in Transylvania.  He also draws on a surprising amount of both classical and Babylonian demonology.  For some reason the latter seems unusually popular this year, I believe this is the third book that I've read with some sort of Babylonian bad guy in it.  The plot moves too quickly for there to be much character development, but there is enough to keep character from going flat.<br />Reaves moves between suspense, horror, and sarcastic humor in his writing, which can be jarring at times.  This is the kind of book that is quite easily read in a couple of sittings.  I was expecting something a bit more ponderous or horrible, instead I found I had a high speed tale of occult suspense told with a light entertaining touch.  I am not normally a fan of books which are mostly plot, but &quot;Hell on Earth&quot; is one of the better examples of that writing style.  I enjoyed it right through to it's rather splashy and overdone ending.  I'm even hoping that there might be a sequel some day.	2001-09-16
1838858:US	53082946	R3A2IXTKWRYYY9	0141312343	227248045	Freddy the Detective	Books	5	67	69	N	Y	The Pig Investigates.	A long time ago (as people count these things) a somewhat overweight, near-sighted 8-year old boy wandered up to the young readers section of his local library and took down a strange volume entitled &quot;Freddy the Detective.&quot;  To be frank, the boy had only just realized that there were books to read beyond Dick and Jane.  Bored, he took the book back home and discovered an entirely new world.  And changed his life forever.<br />That same boy, now much older, has recently discovered that, far from disappearing from the shelves, Freddy the Pig still is available and is still being read.  Curious to see if the magic was still there, this reviewer once again took it home.  I am pleased to report that Freddy remains one of Americas greatest heroes.<br />&quot;Freddy the Detective&quot; is one of the early books in a series that stretches from 1928 to include 25 volumes of delight for both children and the adults they are bringing up.  Freddy is not your ordinary barnyard animal.  Not only do all the animal's on Mr. Bean's farm talk and help with the chores.  Certain of them have taken the trouble to learn to read and write.  Freddy's latest conquest is &quot;The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes&quot; and he has decided to become the world foremost porcine investigator.<br />Freddy, his best friend Jinx the cat, and the sensible Mrs. Wiggins the cow confront many difficult challenges.  These include the case of Everett Bean's stolen toy trains, the case of the missing rabbit, the countless plots of Simon the rat and his dishonest clan, and the case of the robbers in the hermit's cabin.  And, in a grand finale, Freddy defends Jinx himself from charges of murder.  Throughout all of this, our indomitable pig keeps up his plucky attitude.  There is as much action in this story as there is in most efforts at more recent fiction.  And a lot more fun as well.<br />Brooks' farm world is a microcosm of real world about us, but one were the animals are often wiser than the people.  With the exception of the dastardly Simon the animals treat each other well even when they disagree.  Many of them parody our own silliness, like the pompous rooster judge, but they all are likeable.  I also appreciate the positive attitude that permeates Brooks writing.  &quot;Freddy the Detective&quot; is still good reading 70 years after it was written.  And the farm setting gives it a certain timelessness.  It combines humor and strong values in an entertaining package, and has convinced more than one young reader that the world of books is a very fine place.ple.  With the exception of the dastardly Simon the animals treat each other well even when they disagree.  Many of them parody our own silliness, like the pompous rooster judge, but they all are likeable.  I also appreciate the positive attitude that permeates Brooks writing.  &quot;Freddy the Detective&quot; is still good reading 70 years after it was written.  And the farm setting gives it a certain timelessness.  It combines humor and strong values in an entertaining package, and has convinced more than one young reader that the world of books is a very fine place.	2001-09-15
1839040:US	53082946	RPWIR6HIWQDDR	0743407016	484964808	Bruja (ANGEL)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The Revenge of the Weeping Woman	A priest is attacked in the cellar of a church and suddenly a new horror walks the streets of Los Angeles.  Appearing as a beautiful woman, weeping for her children, she is drawn to scenes of conflict.  There, equipped with both incredible strength and magical power, she takes lives with impunity.  Especially if those victims are children.  On the other side of town, Angel is cleaning up a demonic Internet pornography site when he discovers that a group of L.A. vampires are running a fresh blood delivery service complete with people on tap.<br />Cordelia finds a paying case for Angel Investigations when she is approached by Adrian Heath, a well known TV producer.  His wife has disappeared without a trace and he desperately wants help.  And finally, Doyle is suddenly struck with a vision of great danger for a mother and her young son.  As all these threads come together Angel finds himself constantly reminded of his own guilt over the murder of his family.  To resolve this case he must learn how to make peace with himself.<br />It is characteristic of the writing of the Angel series and many of the Buffy stories that there be many layered plots.  The challenge for the author is to keep all these threads moving without losing control of characterization.  No doubt it helps that the main characters are well established, but even so the believability of the novel hinges on how well the other characters are developed as well as the successful management of the plot.  &quot;Bruja,&quot; benefiting from a very fine author, is a classic example of what a good Angel story should be.<br />Mel Odom, the author of 4 books in the Angel and Buffy series, several in the Shadowrun series and many others has established himself again as a respectable writer of science fiction and fantasy.  He has a natural skill with his characters, an ear for dialog and builds his stories almost effortlessly.  In &quot;Brujah&quot; as in many others he manages to sustain a complex plot and completely involve the reader.  While the book does make reference to previous Buffy and Angel adventures, there is nothing here that would prevent a newcomer from thoroughly enjoying the tale.tely involve the reader.  While the book does make reference to previous Buffy and Angel adventures, there is nothing here that would prevent a newcomer from thoroughly enjoying the tale.	2001-09-15
1840693:US	53082946	REAZGE3RWVRNC	0874254183	795726024	The Manager's Pocket Guide to Generation X (Manager's Pocket Guide Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Crossing the Gen X Gap	As a senior baby boomer in a business where the energy of youth has great value, I have gone from wizard, to young turk, to careful planner, and finally to grandfatherly adviser.  All in far too few years.  It has become crystal clear to me that if I wish to help out and sometimes provide guidance I am going to have to learn how to communicate with a group of people who sometimes make me feel like I am speaking a foreign language, the dreaded Generation Xers.<br />Not that they are all that dreaded.  But there is no question that there is a real difference both in values and in approach to work.  When I happened on the small, to the point volume of advice it occurred to me that this might be just what I was looking for - a Rosetta stone that would enable communication and understanding without making somebody have to go through a major adaptation.  I like Xers, to be honest, I was enough of a rebel in my day to appreciate anyone that challenges the status quo and wants to find better, less hidebound way of doing things.<br />Bruce Tulgan's approach it quintessentially straightforward.  He provides history, motivation, and basic principles of operation for Generation X folks as well as a host of short case studies on what to do and what not to do.  He defines many keys to communication with Xers that I have begun to apply at work with some surprising success.  The following is a short sample:<br />Xers are looking for opportunities to develop skills that will help them to grow.<br />Xers are extremely comfortable with using information and technology.<br />Xers feel job security is impossible to maintain and are wary of institutions that can fail.<br />Xers are independent and self-reliant and like to be able to rely on their own skills and abilities.<br />Xers want rapid feedback to measure their return on investment.<br />Xers like to form long-term work relationships with those who can help them.<br />I wish there was a bit more meat to the book, but the truth is that there is plenty of wisdom in it's pages.  I think of it as the kind of back pocket reference book that you can grab whenever you're trying to figure out an approach.  And it's just the right size to keep hidden if you don't want anyone else to discover your secrets.  All kidding aside, this is a useful tool in a changing work place, one that can make the difference between accomplishment and frustration.is plenty of wisdom in it's pages.  I think of it as the kind of back pocket reference book that you can grab whenever you're trying to figure out an approach.  And it's just the right size to keep hidden if you don't want anyone else to discover your secrets.  All kidding aside, this is a useful tool in a changing work place, one that can make the difference between accomplishment and frustration.	2001-09-13
1841892:US	53082946	R2FFAAJW6LMGS3	0895262142	96460733	Lestrade and the Kiss of Horus (The Lestrade Mystery Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Scotland Yard vs. Tutankhamen	I have followed the adventures of M. J. Trow's Sholto Lestrade for some time now.  This Lestrade is a bit brighter and charming than the Holmesian version.  He is also one of the most accident prone detectives in the entire mystery genre.  When he isn't having real accidents - having his feet crushes by women in lifts, losing the end of his nose, getting poisoned, and simply standing in the wrong place - he is busy having verbal accidents.  Lestrade is one of those people who is not the least put off by the fact he doesn't understand a word, leading to horrific puns and malapropisms.<br />&quot;Clifford Hanger had introduced Gardiner to Lestrade as the foremost philologist of his generation.  Lestrade nodded coolly.  After all, a man's religion was his own affair.&quot;<br />Trow seems to manage to throw at least one of these stomach turners in every few pages.  He reminds me a bit of Terry Pratchett, although Trow is more slapstick than Pratchett's needle sharp wit.  This is the kind of stuff you either like or you don't, and if you don't, then &quot;Lestrade and the Kiss of Horus&quot; is to be avoided.  For the rest of us pagans, the books are fun romps, to be enjoyed and then forgotten.<br />In this story, Detective Chief Inspector Lestrade has been retired from the yard for some time.  Even though he is a full three score and ten, he still gets called in on odd cases.  This time the case is the Old Fogey Murders, something one has to figure Lestrade has developed some expertise in.  However, Lestrade hardly gets his investigation underway when he is called upon by Jack and Tilly Holinshed to investigate the mysterious death of Lord Carnarvon at his digs in Egypt (for the archeologically disadvantaged that's Tutankhamon's tomb).  Lestrade, his daughter Emma, and several police officers are flown to Egypt to look into the case.<br />What Lestrade discovers is that he hates to fly, hates the desert and hates camels (who dislike him right back).  He also finds several unusual uses for henbane and learns that he should never try to take a gun from a Texan tycoon.  Of course, where there's henbane, there's going to be plenty of foul play.  The mystery manages to stay one jump ahead of the reader right to the end when Lestrade, as usual, pulls the rabbit out of his hat, solving both the slaughter in the Valley of the Kings and the Old Fogey Murders simultaneously.<br />As I've already indicated one does not read these books because they are great mystery stories but because they are great comic relief.  The &quot;Kiss of Horus&quot; is interesting as well as funny, with a whole cast of characters to enjoy and plenty of exotic scenes.  As it happens, the series isn't written in any special order, so one can start here as well as anywhere else.  Which I certainly encourage you to do.ral unusual uses for henbane and learns that he should never try to take a gun from a Texan tycoon.  Of course, where there's henbane, there's going to be plenty of foul play.  The mystery manages to stay one jump ahead of the reader right to the end when Lestrade, as usual, pulls the rabbit out of his hat, solving both the slaughter in the Valley of the Kings and the Old Fogey Murders simultaneously.<br />As I've already indicated one does not read these books because they are great mystery stories but because they are great comic relief.  The &quot;Kiss of Horus&quot; is interesting as well as funny, with a whole cast of characters to enjoy and plenty of exotic scenes.  As it happens, the series isn't written in any special order, so one can start here as well as anywhere else.  Which I certainly encourage you to do.	2001-09-12
1845303:US	53082946	R2MC187PBP7TKA	0374453063	783295282	Moominpappa at Sea (Moomins)	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Sometimes the Quest is the Quest	Recently I had a conversation about books which affected us as children.  I had the idea of returning to many of them to see if they still had value to an adult.  My co-conspirator was European, and couldn't say enough about Tove Jansson, who, for many years, wrote the Moomin series.  These are charming tales about a curious family of creatures.  They entertain and teach at a deeper level than the cautionary tales that were often part of our experience as American children.  Intrigued, I found a couple of volumes and set about reading them.  The first of these is &quot;Moominpappa at Sea.&quot;<br />The Moomin family is led by Moominpappa and Moominmamma.  Following up behind are Moomintroll, the boy of the tale, and youngest is Little My, whose personality is best described as a bit thorny and imperturbable.  The story starts with the Moomins living in a pleasant house near the Gulf of Finland.  One is gradually drawn into the cadences of their conversation and little events that make up their lives.  In addition, we meet the Groke, who is attracted to lamplight and freezes the ground where she stands.  No sooner are we settled when, coming to the decision almost whimsically, the family determines to move to a small island across the sea where they will run a lighthouse.  They load up their boat and sail off, with the Groke not far behind them.<br />The island has a gigantic lighthouse at one end, and its only inhabitant, a fisherman at the other.  In short order Moominpappa is building furniture and trying to start up the lighthouse lamp, while Moominmamma works at making their new home livable.  Moomintroll wanders the island investigating, finding a perfect place to hide, mermaids, and, eventually, the Groke, who will only stand and stare at the lamp he holds.  Eventually Moominpappa realizes he doesn't understand how to start the lamp and, goes on to try other enthusiasms.  Moominmamma struggles with trying to feel at home.  Moomintroll finds himself entranced by the seahorses and perplexed by the Groke.  Of course, Little My observes and remarks on everyone's activity.  There is a general sense of discomfort, and the island, as time goes on, seems to become increasingly dark and hostile.<br />How the Moomins deal with this strange island, the Groke, and the other mysteries about them is by virtue of a nature which is both natural and miraculous.  They do not work magic, but they themselves are the stuff of magic.  The story is about how each of them finds themselves, and as they do, the world about them changes as well.  In the course of time, the lighthouse turns and the Groke becomes warm.  All this happens by subtle degrees.  There is an almost Zen-like quality to the pace of the book, which is told in a narrative style that begs to be read aloud.  This is not a book for one who wants everything laid out crystal clear.  Rather it speaks to those who want to be engaged, mystified, and, finally, enchanted.by the seahorses and perplexed by the Groke.  Of course, Little My observes and remarks on everyone's activity.  There is a general sense of discomfort, and the island, as time goes on, seems to become increasingly dark and hostile.<br />How the Moomins deal with this strange island, the Groke, and the other mysteries about them is by virtue of a nature which is both natural and miraculous.  They do not work magic, but they themselves are the stuff of magic.  The story is about how each of them finds themselves, and as they do, the world about them changes as well.  In the course of time, the lighthouse turns and the Groke becomes warm.  All this happens by subtle degrees.  There is an almost Zen-like quality to the pace of the book, which is told in a narrative style that begs to be read aloud.  This is not a book for one who wants everything laid out crystal clear.  Rather it speaks to those who want to be engaged, mystified, and, finally, enchanted.	2001-09-08
1845957:US	53082946	R21VMPF9NBYT83	0060393866	296487910	Over Tumbled Graves	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Worth Every Superlative	&quot;Over Tumbled Graves&quot; is set on Spokane, Washington, a city which is noted for the waterfalls along the river that runs through it.  The opening of the book is set at these falls when a young police detective, Caroline Marby, must chose between saving the life of the drug dealer or shooting the buyer who threw him into the falls.  This choice, the choice between death and the preservation of life, is one of many threads that run through this book and make it a rich treat for the tired fan of the serial killer genre.<br />Caroline, with her friend and mentor Alan Dupree, become involved in a hunt for a killer who leaves his prostitute victims strangled and shot, grasping their last payment in their hands.  The chain of evidence points to Caroline's escaped drug buyer, Lenny Ryan, as the killer but he remains somehow intangible, appearing and disappearing almost at will, with an agenda which never seems quite clear.  As Caroline and Alan investigate, their present relationship as not quite lovers hovers between them.  He is married and Caroline has a live-in.  The tension between the two reflects the rapids that run through the city, as separation that can never be truely bridged.<br />As the body count mounts, Dupree, who is heading the investigation, is forced to call in FBI profilers.  His sarcastic intolerance of these men and unwillingness to use modern investigative techniques puts him at odds with his superiors, and he is eventually removed from the case.  This widens the division between him and Caroline as she must pick up many of the threads Dupree left hanging.  Dupree, trying to deal with his frustration and a failing marriage, returns to the streets that he started on.<br />The book is also the tale of the conflict between the two profilers.  Curtis Blanton, a retired FBI profiler, sarcastic and sharp witted is an almost unwilling participant.  For him the case has two low a body count to be worth the efforts of a profiler.  Jeffrey McDaniel, on loan from the FBI is condescending and overblown.  For him the case is an opportunity to show up Blanton.  Neither man adds much to the investigation, although their rivalry quickly becomes the comic relief of the story.<br />Caroline, caught in between the profilers, as she is between Dupree and his replacement Spivey, must piece together the truth out of the tiniest of shreds and suspicions.  The final answer is unexpected and complex.  To say that Jess Walter is a master of misdirection would be a serious understatement.<br />The action flows beautifully, building slowly from the moment the first body is discovered.  Hardly sparse, there is still little waste in the telling, although I wish that Walter had spent just a bit more effort on the setting.  Other than the river itself, Spokane and its environs never quite come to life the way the characters do.  The story is a melancholy one, turning on tragedy and loss and the tiny steps that lead one from self-interest to evil.  Redeeming qualities are found in unexpected places and the reader is left with much to consider in the end.  Highly recommended.on loan from the FBI is condescending and overblown.  For him the case is an opportunity to show up Blanton.  Neither man adds much to the investigation, although their rivalry quickly becomes the comic relief of the story.<br />Caroline, caught in between the profilers, as she is between Dupree and his replacement Spivey, must piece together the truth out of the tiniest of shreds and suspicions.  The final answer is unexpected and complex.  To say that Jess Walter is a master of misdirection would be a serious understatement.  <br />The action flows beautifully, building slowly from the moment the first body is discovered.  Hardly sparse, there is still little waste in the telling, although I wish that Walter had spent just a bit more effort on the setting.  Other than the river itself, Spokane and its environs never quite come to life the way the characters do.  The story is a melancholy one, turning on tragedy and loss and the tiny steps that lead one from self-interest to evil.  Redeeming qualities are found in unexpected places and the reader is left with much to consider in the end.  Highly recommended.	2001-09-08
1848310:US	53082946	R1G359ZR9GJS6G	0743418956	553439181	Long Way Home (Buffy the Vampire Slayer/Angel Unseen - Book, 3) (Bk. 3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Lost Without a Map!	Volume Two if this series, &quot;Door to Alternity,&quot; left us hanging as Buffy and Angel prepared to leave this world to search through alternate universes for those missing from L.A. and Sunnydale.  Entering through separate portals their plan was to meet on the other side, track down the missing, and return in one piece.  Sound easy?  It might have been in the planning stages, but Spike's last minute decision to jump through the portal in search of a more vampire friendly world destroys the link between Tara, Willow, Dona Pilar, Alina and Buffy.  Suddenly Buffy, Angel, and Spike as well are stranded separately, in serious trouble, with no idea how to proceed.<br />While those left behind struggle to reestablish the link, each of the adventurers finds themselves faced with unexpected opposition.  Buffy materializes just in time to find herself in unarmed combat with a dragon.  No sooner is that peril vanquished when she comes under attack by an overly aggressive suit of armor.  She manages another escape and enters a castle where she is chased everywhere by giant guard rats down halls with lots (really lots) of doors.  Angel appears and discovers that he must rescue a damsel in distress from several very bad guys.  When said damsel takes Angel home to meet her witch grandmother Angel suddenly finds he is deep in combat with the rest of the very, very bad guys.<br />And Spike?  Spike finds himself in what first appears to be vampire heaven, complete with rivers running with blood.  When he talks to several other vampire residents he discovers that rather than heaven, he has landed in the multiverse's only vampire zoo.  Escape he does, but finds that he is running from of a world full of people who keep zapping him with ray guns.  Meanwhile, back home, Tara, Willow, and Dona Pilar have figured out how to reestablish contact and an emergency jailbreak is engineered to send in the shock troops, Faith.<br />At some point, the hysterical reader will realize that almost everyone who could appear in this Buffy story actually does, right down to a certain Sunnydale mayor.  On top of this we have innumerable dimension hopping monsters, battling Russian and Hispanic gangs, and even the L.A. police.  Wherever you read, something is coming to a boil.  Somehow, Nancy Holder and Jeff Mariotte manage to keep things together and maintain pace throughout the entire novel.  From a character viewpoint things have stabilized and the Riley/Buffy and Tara/Willow relationships work much more effortlessly than in previous volumes.  I don't think you will be disappointed.  This whole series is a must read for diehard Buffy fans, and bodes well for future volumes.st everyone who could appear in this Buffy story actually does, right down to a certain Sunnydale mayor.  On top of this we have innumerable dimension hopping monsters, battling Russian and Hispanic gangs, and even the L.A. police.  Wherever you read, something is coming to a boil.  Somehow, Nancy Holder and Jeff Mariotte manage to keep things together and maintain pace throughout the entire novel.  From a character viewpoint things have stabilized and the Riley/Buffy and Tara/Willow relationships work much more effortlessly than in previous volumes.  I don't think you will be disappointed.  This whole series is a must read for diehard Buffy fans, and bodes well for future volumes.	2001-09-06
1849302:US	53082946	R2Q2240AQODA7P	0886775302	66395211	Blood Lines	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Mummies AND Vampires!!	I have to confess.  I am just as addicted to mummies as I am to vampires.  Possibly even worse.  Ever since I was completely terrified by both Karloff's and Chaney's portrayals of Kharis I have been a loyal pop-corn chomping mummy fan.  So I took great delight in discovering that the latest opponent of Vicki Nelson, Mike Celluci, and Henry Fitzroy is an ancient Egyptian wizard who is so old that his origins go back to pre-dynastic times.  Eventually he challenged the gods themselves and was promptly trapped, wrapped, and entombed alive.  Several thousand years later the Royal Ontario Museum purchases his sarcophagus and brings it back to Toronto.<br />Opening the sarcophagus triggers a series of eerie events.  Two men die of 'heart failure' and then the whole museum staff suffers from selective memory lost as the mummy reawakens, feeds, and prepares to reinstate his god's reign on earth.  Taking the name Anwar Tawfik the mummy uses its command of sorcery and hypnosis to extend its power and to feed on its favorite delicacy, young and infant children.<br />Mike Celluci is the first to suspect, when he finds clues at the museum that simply do not agree with the testimony of the staff.  And then Henry Fitzroy is suddenly haunted with dreams of a burning sun.  Dreams so vivid that Henry doubts his own sanity and fears the he will be driven to suicide.  Vicki is enlisted by both men to help with the investigation and to keep Henry from committing auto-da-fe.  As usual, when these three are involved the tension of the love triangle adds suspense and humor to their otherwise grim struggle.<br />Tawfik successfully takes over the police department and turns Mike and Vicki into fugitives.  In addition, he plans to make a feast out of Henry's ka (Egyptian soul).  Absorbing Henry, Tawfik figures, will give him such a boost that he can get rid of his unpleasant deity and move up himself.  He is also planning to perform a ceremony that will cement his powers and make him virtually unstoppable.  Careful detection, as well as considerable luck, are our heroes primary resources in defeating their strongest opponent so far and preventing a supernatural disaster.<br />&quot;Blood Lines,&quot; third in this series carves out some new territory.  The series shifts from simply being Vicki's story to making Celluci and Henry equal characters.  For the same reason, Henry's powers as a 450 year old vampire are downplayed to increase the part the others play in the final cataclysm.  This means good character development and a rich and varied plot.  All in all a very enjoyable novel, and the best so far.ly unstoppable.  Careful detection, as well as considerable luck, are our heroes primary resources in defeating their strongest opponent so far and preventing a supernatural disaster.<br />&quot;Blood Lines,&quot; third in this series carves out some new territory.  The series shifts from simply being Vicki's story to making Celluci and Henry equal characters.  For the same reason, Henry's powers as a 450 year old vampire are downplayed to increase the part the others play in the final cataclysm.  This means good character development and a rich and varied plot.  All in all a very enjoyable novel, and the best so far.	2001-09-05
1852060:US	53082946	R2AYEWN0BF8W0R	0345418670	381731385	Reunion: A Pip and Flinx Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Flinx and Pip Return	It has been a very long time since there has been a Flinx novel.  Mid-Flinx was published in 1995.  Since that time, Alan Dean Foster has produced a steady stream of work, including several set in the same universe, but references to Flinx and his deadly Alaspinian Mini-Dragon have been non-existent.  Some of this probably has to with the rapidity with which the earlier volumes came out.  Foster is a good enough author to stop before he has overused a theme.<br />.<br />Some things never change.  Flinx, now 21, has matured a bit, and his empathic powers have grown as well. Pip is still in the best of health as well.  But Flinx is still roaming the universe in Teacher, his starship, and he is still on a quest to discover his true identity and purpose.  This time, Flinx has returned to Earth to seek for more information on his origins as an experiment of the banned Meliorare Society.  Using his empathic power Flinx convinces a young security staffer to allow him access to the AI of a major data center.  From there he is able to penetrate the Earth's data shell and investigate files still under Church ban.<br />.<br />Even as Flinx attempts to grasp the last 'sybfile' of information it disappears.  He manages to trace the sybfile to a ship leaving the Earth and comes under a deadly 'information attack' aimed at the AI he is using.  Flinx is barely able to escape the Data Center in the chaos and it is only luck that gets him safely off planet and on board the Teacher.  He is determined to find the sybfile, but the ship Flinx is chasing is headed in the worst direction.  Its destination is the planet of Pyrassis, well into the territory of the AAnn Empire, where humans are considered a delicacy.<br />.<br />Rapid-fire, the plot gets more and more complicated, as Flinx finds himself crossing the Pyrassian desert on step ahead of death, a near captive of the AAnn, and then thrust back into space for a confrontation of inconceivable magnitude.  Although there are moments where the narrative bogs down while Foster takes the time to explain something, the overall impact is of a long and finely detailed chase story.  For most readers, the detail about the reptilian Aann will be new territory.  Foster has made them quasi-comical, speaking in hissing sibilants with a delicate sarcasm and a very serious understanding of the politics of success in the military.<br />.<br />For a couple of reasons, this is a 4-1/2 star novel; not really the five I'm giving it.  First is the tendency to go ponderous that I've already mentioned.  This happens at moments of scientific explanation, and are over quickly.  My other criticism, is that rather than take the time to tie up some of the many loose ends already built into the series, Foster adds even more.  Without some cleanup and, perhaps, a slightly more robust publication schedule there is danger that details will begin to conflict more conspicuously than they already do.  These flaws are minor, and should not interfere with the reader's enjoyment of the book.  &quot;Reunion&quot; stands very well on it's own, but a trip to some of its predecessors is recommended, purely for the pleasure of reading.ative bogs down while Foster takes the time to explain something, the overall impact is of a long and finely detailed chase story.  For most readers, the detail about the reptilian Aann will be new territory.  Foster has made them quasi-comical, speaking in hissing sibilants with a delicate sarcasm and a very serious understanding of the politics of success in the military.<BR>.<BR>For a couple of reasons, this is a 4-1/2 star novel; not really the five I'm giving it.  First is the tendency to go ponderous that I've already mentioned.  This happens at moments of scientific explanation, and are over quickly.  My other criticism, is that rather than take the time to tie up some of the many loose ends already built into the series, Foster adds even more.  Without some cleanup and, perhaps, a slightly more robust publication schedule there is danger that details will begin to conflict more conspicuously than they already do.  These flaws are minor, and should not interfere with the reader's enjoyment of the book.  &quot;Reunion&quot; stands very well on it's own, but a trip to some of its predecessors is recommended, purely for the pleasure of reading.	2001-09-03
1853626:US	53082946	R1Q41O8SEPG37T	043910839X	80503176	Gershon's Monster: A Story for the Jewish New Year	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Repentance and The Return to Wonder	While looking for something else entirely, my eye fell on this short illustrated retelling of a Hasidic legend, and in very short order I was totally entranced. The story, a cautionary tale relative to the nature of sin and redemption is ostensibly for children. But, in these times, it has as much meaning for the adult reading it to the child as it does for the child who is listening.<br />.<br />Gershon is a baker. He lives a small, ungenerous life, never committing a 'big' sin but often doing the little wrong things that can leave a bitter taste behind. He orders rather than asks, forgets to thank people and never feels regret for his actions. Instead he stores his errors in the basement and then, at Rosh Hashanah, he follows the old tashlikh ceremony and empties his sins into the ocean as if they were bread crumbs.<br />.<br />One day Gershon and his wife, who are childless, decide to consult a wise man, a tzaddik, to see if they might have children. The tzaddik, modeled after Rabbi Israel ben Elieser (the nearly legendary Baal Shem Tov), warns Gershon off, telling him that all the sins he has fouled the ocean with will come back to haunt him if he has children. Gershon is not to be put off though, and the Rabbi relents. He provides a cantrip and Gershon and his wife soon have twins.<br />.<br />When the children are five, the Tzaddik's warning starts to come to pass, and Gershon sees the monster he has created rise from the ocean and threaten his children. For the fist time in his life Gershon truly repents and, as the monster fades away Gershon clasps his children and finally understands what he must do.<br />.<br />Eric Kimmel's telling of this tale is crisp and clear, capable of withstanding many re-readings and the magnificent illustrations by Jon Muth which ornament the book are unforgettable. The final piece is a one page explanation of the book and some discussion of the nature of t'shuvah (repentance). Repentance is not simply apologizing, one must experience remorse and a commitment to change, and be willing to do whatever is needed to make restitution. Rarely are cautionary tales so well presented. Highly recommended for children and their parents.d a commitment to change, and be willing to do whatever is needed to make restitution. Rarely are cautionary tales so well presented. Highly recommended for children and their parents.	2001-09-02
1854394:US	53082946	R322P3VTSJHPX8	0863433979	819384606	Creative Elements: Landscape Photography-Darkroom Techniques	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Getting the most out of smaller negatives.	Getting the most out of smaller negatives.<br />One of the problems that the small format (35mm) photographer faces when using faster film (ASA 400) is that the subsequent loss of detail makes truly representative imagery difficult to accomplish.  Used to the techniques of large format specialists such as Ansel Adams or John Sexton, we have come to expect big prints with breathtaking depth and detail.  In addition, large format negatives permit fine manipulations of contrast and perspective.  This often convinces the 35mm SLR owner that good black and white landscape work is beyond his or her reach.<br />Fortunately, this is not true.  Eddie Ephraums fine volume on landscape printmaking is a study in using the characteristics of the smaller camera as stepping off points instead of limitations.  Ephraums' moody stylings, full of burning in, contrast manipulation, and toning are exciting images that actually benefit from the presence of grain and softness.  He takes twenty images and presents complete details on both the thought process and the darkroom work needed to produce the final result.  These alone are a gold mine of creative information.<br />The remainder of the book is a technical section that covers everything from darkroom setup to print finishing.  Each subject is lucidly presented, with excellent photographs.  Although an experience darkroom worker I still found much food for thought.  I especially liked the sections on image and print assessment, as well as his coverage of toning.  The last part of the book a formulary and a good section of tables and charts.<br />While the book is well enough written for the beginner to use, I think someone with a modicum of experience taking and making pictures will benefit the most.  This is not a read it once and forget it kind of book.  You will find yourself returning to it often when you are faced with the puzzle of how to get down on paper what you saw in your mind.	2001-09-01
1856438:US	53082946	R1HP5XUDVJF8L6	0515117617	387699713	Happy Are Those Who Mourn (Blackie Ryan mystery)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Bishop and the Tower	My first Blackie Ryan novel was &quot;Happy Are The Peacemakers.&quot; While I enjoyed it greatly it was not quite what I expected. Set in Dublin, scented with a perpetually heavy Irish brogue, and narrated by someone other than the Bishop himself, it wasn't quite my cup of tea. I had already bought &quot;Happy Are Those Who Mourn,&quot; and was worried that I would continue to be a bit disgruntled. The good news for me is that &quot;Those Who Mourn&quot; is much more the Greeley novel I was promised, and that I am completely satisfied.<br />Blackie Ryan, auxiliary Bishop of Chicago, is a wry and iconoclastic defender of the faith who often serves the Cardinal as investigator and chief meddler into suspect affairs. In this case Blackie is asked to investigate the apparent haunting of the Church of Saints Peter and Paul in the up-scale community of Woodbridge. The death of the previous parish priest, Charles McInerny, is suspect, and the current incumbent, Peter Finnegan, is harassed on all sides by an irascible ghost. The Cardinal is not superstitious and wants to make sure that the ghost does not become a news story.<br />Blackie arrives to discover that the spirit in question may not be the worst of the parish's problems. For 25 years the finances of the church have been handled laxly and some 10 million dollars or more seems to have evaporated. Blackie's investigations lead him to those who were close cronies of the old priest. The banker Gerald Reed and his beautiful wife Evelyn are involved somehow. In addition, the eccentric Dr. Curtin and his spear bearing wife are certainly suspect, as well as Arnold Griffin, a commodities trader. Blackie finds that all of these players are somehow in cahoots with each other, and that much of the story dates back to Pusan in Korea. McInerny's murder turns out to be the kind of closed room mystery that the Bishop specializes in. With all these complications it is no surprise when a new rash of deaths occur.<br />One comes to like Bishop Ryan right from the start. He has a slightly sarcastic style that masks a generous nature and a brilliant mind. His first person narrative is full of spark and insight, and he is honest with the reader without giving anything away. He is the perfect foil for Andrew Greeley who seems to really care for his characters and takes the time to bring them to life. These tales are 'comfy' mystery stories, in that there is little real violence and much to enjoy. The reader can look forward to a good puzzle, humorous narrative, and a satisfying ending. If you've been reading a lot of noir fiction lately, try a Greeley tale for blessed relief.ishop Ryan right from the start. He has a slightly sarcastic style that masks a generous nature and a brilliant mind. His first person narrative is full of spark and insight, and he is honest with the reader without giving anything away. He is the perfect foil for Andrew Greeley who seems to really care for his characters and takes the time to bring them to life. These tales are 'comfy' mystery stories, in that there is little real violence and much to enjoy. The reader can look forward to a good puzzle, humorous narrative, and a satisfying ending. If you've been reading a lot of noir fiction lately, try a Greeley tale for blessed relief.	2001-08-30
1858054:US	53082946	RSRKTVKAGSV9L	1881616142	975645568	Jeffrey Silverthorne: Photographs	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The Sensuous Aspect of Death	I think of myself as an open-minded student of photography with a broad spectrum of likes. And I have been fascinated with the photographers of the grotesque (such as Joel Peter Witken) for many years. But I can honestly say that this little volume of Jeffrey Silverthorne's works (from a show at Galerie A, in Stuttgart) is one of the most difficult books in my collection. It is one of the few volumes that I warn people about when they go to pick it up.<br /> Silverthorne has an intense fascination with death, and an equally eerie sense of the sensual. Most of the photographs in this volume are drawn from several series done in morgues. This isn't a new idea; Witkin did a great deal of work in similar circumstances. But what Silverthorne often sees is a sexuality that is nearly as chilling as death itself. Constantly in these photographs your first reaction is as if the subject (a sleeping girl, a mother, a pair of lovers) is alive. And then the eye sees the whole picture, and with a shock you must adjust your vision to include the scars and cuts of death and autopsy. Other shots have an almost poetic balance which also shatters in the mirror of mortality. Few photographers can consistently evoke such a sense of horror.<br /> In another series Silverthorne works with found models in the motels of Detroit. These have a different kind of horror. Despite the casualness of the participants there is a strong theme of alienation and loss. These are people thrown together as if they were bodies. Each responds to the camera as if the others on the image were not there. This is not the horror of death, but the horror of anomie. A loss not of the body, but the spirit. One is changed in viewing these images, and not in comfortable ways.<br /> I cannot help but admire a photographer who can produce such strong and unnerving images. But I am more comfortable when the book is tucked away on its bookshelf than when I am looking through it, or when it is opened for discussion. In a way the work helps me to define my own limits, and to be very glad that they are there. (Also in the volume are an interesting introductory piece by the photographer and some fine analysis by Gregory Fuller.)way the work helps me to define my own limits, and to be very glad that they are there. (Also in the volume are an interesting introductory piece by the photographer and some fine analysis by Gregory Fuller.)	2001-08-29
1860790:US	53082946	R1Y71AQJC6YRQZ	067187862X	398793372	Keeper of the King	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Vampire and the Grail	Defeated at tourney, Richard D'Orleans finds himself without resources and unwelcome in his father's house. While deciding what to do he makes the unexpected acquaintance of the beautiful lady Sabra. He is deeply attracted to her, and, when she offers him a position, he accepts. She needs to make one small change in him... In short order he becomes a vampire. Like Sabra herself, he is not simply a vampire, but one in service if the goddess. His first assignment, which is not told in the book, is as Lancelot du Lac in the court of King Arthur.<br />For us, the new action begins in the present, when Richard (now Richard Dun) is a security specialist retained by the Canadian Government to protect the life of the Prime Minister. An assassination threat has been uncovered, believed to be assigned to Charon, a deadly and secretive killer for hire.<br />During his investigations, Richard loses complete control of the beast within him, some thing that has never happened before.  Alarmed he returns to Sabra for consultation. There he finds the worst. Sabra too is struggling with her beast, will only be able to hold out for a short time. She believes that there is only one hope for them, the Holy Grail. Richard's quest for the grail is no simple adventure. And it is complicated by the presence of Sharon Geary a sharp, beautiful investigator for whom he feels great affection.<br />Charon also seeks the Grail in addition to the Prime Minister's life. Richard's efforts to be lover, rescuer, and counter-terrorist force him on a breakneck paced journey from Toronto to England and British Columbia. The book has relatively few characters for it's length and is primarily an action novel with the appropriate combination of occult, sexiness, and violence.<br />I'm normally suspicious of 'joint' efforts between an established author and unknown writers. Too often these turn out to be publicity marriages. Too often such arrangements produce weak novels, intended to sell for a short while and then disappear off the map. While this effort may have started out that way, Nigel Bennett turns out to have considerable talent. Pat Elrod's role seems to have had more to do with plot and creative support, while Bennett seems to have focussed on the actual writing and production. The result is far better than I would have expected. Recommended.ile and then disappear off the map. While this effort may have started out that way, Nigel Bennett turns out to have considerable talent. Pat Elrod's role seems to have had more to do with plot and creative support, while Bennett seems to have focussed on the actual writing and production. The result is far better than I would have expected. Recommended.	2001-08-27
1861752:US	53082946	RW0L4B164ZGIE	0679776192	524015341	Tao Te Ching, 25th-Anniversary Edition (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	5	218	235	N	N	'This is called &quot;following the light.&quot;'	It is hardly difficult to understand the enduring quality of the Tao Te Ching. Written by Lao Tsu in the sixth century BC is a simple, quiet book that reflects upon our true nature and our behavior. Broken up into 81 'chapters' or short poems, it comprises a mere 5,000 words. Every other sentence is a memorable quote, and one can read it in an hour and study it for a lifetime.<br />What I do find remarkable is the durability of this particular edition. My copy is ancient, dating back to my college days. At frequent intervals it seems to come to hand and I will peruse it again and enjoy the clarity of this translation by Gia-Fu Feng and Jane English. They have carefully chosen a simple, accessible style which I feel completely captures the nature of the Tao. &quot;What is a good man? A teacher of a bad man.<br />What is a bad man? A good man's charge.&quot;<br />Accompanying the text are many fine examples of Gia-Fu Feng's calligraphy and Jane English's photographs. While I like Chinese calligraphy, I lack the understanding to make any judgement. I can only report that it shows flow and grace, and works perfectly with English's photographs. These latter capture, most often with natural images, a play of contrast which often is as calligraphic as the accompanying handwriting. Thus, the book itself is a careful balance between content and form.<br />At the end of the day, or in an otherwise tense moment, this volume has often been the source of the tiny bit of sanity that makes the next day possible. There is much to meditate on here and this edition is a precious resource for the seeking mind.	2001-08-26
1863350:US	53082946	R32FMTWINYG01M	1893687082	285525691	The Licking Valley Coon Hunters Club (A Martin Zolotow Mystery)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	If You Dislike Private Detectives...	If wise guy, smart mouthed private detectives get on your nerves, if you are revolted by the possibility of having to read one more of Parker's Spencer novels, then this recent tidbit from Brian Hopkins might be just what you need. The investigator in question is Martin Zolotow. Retired from the police due to the excessive death rate that seems to follow him around, Zolotow now alternates between working for hire and rescuing young women from lives of sin on the street. He perceives of himself as a white knight, defending the innocent while quoting Rosetti. The rest of the world, however, seems to disagree with him.<br />In this tale Zolotow is literally kidnapped into helping rescue the daughter of Tobias Weatherford Washington, an Oklahoman crime boss. She has been kidnapped by another equally unpleasant Oklahoman, James McDevitt, who mixes the manufacture and sale of designer drugs with genetic experiments that turn humans into vampires. McDevitt has discovered that young black women are the perfect vampire snack, so Rayleen Washington is at considerable risk. Martin quickly discovers that his work is cut out for him. He finds Rayleen, but is captured himself, and eventually winds up one of the prey in a vampiric cattle drive.<br />What makes &quot;The Licking Valley Coon Hunters Club&quot; remarkable it the amount of gratuitous and headlong violence it contains. Almost all of it is aimed at Zolotow. By page 20 he has already received two vicious beatings, and the bloodshed continues through the remaining 152. If you carefully tally up the injuries Martin receives in the 48 hour course of the book, one can only conclude that he has special powers of his own. Unfortunately none of those talents include knowing when to step out of the line of fire. Zolotow likes to irritate his opponents, and often gets what he deserves.<br />I don't want to give the impression this is a badly written book. I'm inclined to think of it as a sort of noir bodice ripper for the macho set. There's lots of rescuing damsels, lots of attacking the bad guys, and not a whole lot of plot to confuse things. In a short novel with this much action it would be too much to expect fine characterization. Instead, Hopkins relies on archetypes to populate his tale (the huge fat bad guy, the prostitute with the heart of gold, etc.). Even Zolotow does a fair amount of posturing in a set of short flashbacks that are intended to help us understand him. It took me a bit to adjust, but in the long run I found the book enjoyable, if somewhat hard to believe.o set. There's lots of rescuing damsels, lots of attacking the bad guys, and not a whole lot of plot to confuse things. In a short novel with this much action it would be too much to expect fine characterization. Instead, Hopkins relies on archetypes to populate his tale (the huge fat bad guy, the prostitute with the heart of gold, etc.). Even Zolotow does a fair amount of posturing in a set of short flashbacks that are intended to help us understand him. It took me a bit to adjust, but in the long run I found the book enjoyable, if somewhat hard to believe.	2001-08-25
1863974:US	53082946	R1TBT9MTZVDEBP	0886775027	290922881	Blood Trail: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	4	40	40	N	N	Someone is Killing the Werewolves of Canada	&quot;Blood Trail&quot; is the second in Tanya Huff's vampire series.  Written in 1992 it anticipates and foreshadows Laurell Hamilton's Anita Blake series.  Huff's heroine is similar to Anita in that she is tough and self willed, but she is a bit more subdued, lacks any special powers and is handicapped by the retinosa pigmentosa which is slowly making her go blind.  Nor are the settings similar, Toronto instead of St. Louis, and vampires are rare and not necessarily monstrous.  While Huff's stories have an element of romance in them, they do not even approach the steamy vampire sexiness that Hamilton puts together with ease.<br />That being said, this tale starts out in Toronto, but rapidly shifts to the countryside around London, Ontario.  At vampire Henry Fitzroy's request Vicki is helping to discover a sniper who is trying to kill a family of werewolves.  Nightblind, Vicki will do the day work and Henry will watch the night.  Two have already died before Vicki arrives, and Henry is wounded on his very first patrol.  Vicki is initially wary of the wer, but soon discovers that they are hardly the creatures of horror stories.  Instead the Heerkens family are pleasant, caring folk who live very much in the present and who have an overwhelming charm.  To the observer they are ordinary farmers with a lot of dogs and a penchant for nudity.  Vicki makes a strong connection with some of the younger members of the pack and rapidly becomes determined to track down the real monster, the guy with the gun.<br />On top of Henry's injury, an attempt is made on Vicki's life when her brake lines are cut.  To make matters worse, Mike Celluci, Vicki's ex-partner, and sometimes lover, appears from Toronto.  Mike is convinced that Henry is an organized crime boss and has come to rescue her.  Needless to say, rescuing is not what she needs.  Mike inadvertently finds out that the people for whom Vicki is working are werewolves and nearly has a coping failure.  And he never quite gets his confrontation with Henry.  And in the meantime, the killer is still stalking the werewolves.  The wer themselves refuse to limit there own freedom, making Henry and Vicki's task even more complicated as they seek for a hunter who is also an extraordinary marksman.<br />All of this adds up to a great tale.  With an entire family of werewolves to present, Huff keeps extraneous characters to a minimum.  The most interesting are the country doctor who cares for the Heerkens and a curious woman who teaches Vicki more than she ever wanted to know about Olympic Marksmanship competition.  The Heerkens family itself is fascinating from Nadine and Stuart, the alpha pair to the young twins Rose and Peter.  Huff has managed to create a new kind of werewolf that seems as true as if it followed the legends exactly.  Huff's brew is a mix of humor and suspense that makes &quot;Blood Trail&quot; a unique and satisfying book.his confrontation with Henry.  And in the meantime, the killer is still stalking the werewolves.  The wer themselves refuse to limit there own freedom, making Henry and Vicki's task even more complicated as they seek for a hunter who is also an extraordinary marksman.<br />All of this adds up to a great tale.  With an entire family of werewolves to present, Huff keeps extraneous characters to a minimum.  The most interesting are the country doctor who cares for the Heerkens and a curious woman who teaches Vicki more than she ever wanted to know about Olympic Marksmanship competition.  The Heerkens family itself is fascinating from Nadine and Stuart, the alpha pair to the young twins Rose and Peter.  Huff has managed to create a new kind of werewolf that seems as true as if it followed the legends exactly.  Huff's brew is a mix of humor and suspense that makes &quot;Blood Trail&quot; a unique and satisfying book.	2001-08-24
1865355:US	53082946	R2YE1LYWX2E7NX	0786866977	191980606	The Devil's Cure : A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sometimes the Cure Is Worse than the Disease	When a promising effort to find a treatment for an incurable form of cancer fails at the last moment, Laura Donaldson, leader of the medical research team is unexpectedly handed one last ray of hope.  She is called in to examine an unusual blood sample which seems to be able to efficiently destroy any trace of cancerous tissue.  There is a catch, however, the sample was taken forcibly from David Haines, an imprisoned serial killer.  Haines' preferred victims were doctors and medical researchers like Donaldson, who violated his cult-based religious convictions.  To Haines, blood was sacred; not to be defiled by the evil hands of those who would stay the Lord's judgement.  Laura will need a court order to force the samples she needs from David Haines.<br />Kevin Sheldrake is the FBI man who brought in David Haines.  It was an exhausting three year struggle that left Kevin and emotional wreck, and destroyed his marriage.  Kevin specializes in religious cult crimes; having once been indoctrinated in a religious cult himself.  The experience has left him questing for a God that seems to perpetually elude him.  A recent medical killing alerts Kevin, and his investigation reveals that, even though Haines is imprisoned, he has manages to attract one or more followers who will carry out his commands.  Kevin moves to meet the threat, but too late, now he, Dr. Donaldson, and David Haines are on a collision course.<br />When Laura manages to get the court order she speeds of to Joliet prison with a fully equipped medical field van.  But she is ill prepared for treachery.  Haines knows of her approach and, with the help of a guard who has succumbed to his personal magnetism manages a bloody escape.  Hampered both by law enforcement personnel that simply cannot accept Haines capabilities and sheer bad luck, Keven watches the murderer slips through his fingers.  David Haines has a new agenda now.  He feels he must prevent any possibility that his blood might fall into the hands the medical science.  Making moves like a chess player he keeps everyone guessing ask he works at tracking down anyone in his own family who might share his heritage.  &quot;The Devil's Cure&quot; is the suspenseful tale of Donaldson's and Sheldrake's race against a cold-blooded killer who seems to be able to anticipate their actions and reading their minds.<br />I found the interplay between the medical and religious cult themes fascinating.  While there have been other serial killer/medical suspense stories, the information on the operation of religious cults added considerable dimension to both Sheldrake's and Haines characters.  Each character struggles with his faith in one fashion or another.  In contrast, Laura takes longer to develop, although she has center stage for a good piece of the novel.  Her fixation with David's blood may be understandable, but monomania does not make multi-faceted characters.  In truth, both Kevin and Laura are characters driven by events, and Haines is the man with his hand on the controls.  There are other characters in the book, but all lack the vividness of the central three, and are often little more than sketches and parodies.<br />This is a completely successful book.  Suspense builds well, and the finale has sufficient twists and turns to engage the most jaded reader.  My only serious criticism is that the plot is a bit too fantastical.  If a secret is being kept from Haines it somehow drops in his lap, or he accidentally stumbles over it.  There is always somebody around to help him.  Things work his way right up to the end.  Nobody's luck is that good, and it rings false after a while.  Even so, the &quot;The Devil's Cure&quot; is quite well written and enjoyable.  Oppel is new to this genre, having established himself as a successful writer of books for children and young adults.  Once he adjusts completely to a new readership I expect he will do very, very well.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readere medical science.  Making moves like a chess player he keeps everyone guessing ask he works at tracking down anyone in his own family who might share his heritage.  &quot;The Devil's Cure&quot; is the suspenseful tale of Donaldson's and Sheldrake's race against a cold-blooded killer who seems to be able to anticipate their actions and reading their minds.<br />I found the interplay between the medical and religious cult themes fascinating.  While there have been other serial killer/medical suspense stories, the information on the operation of religious cults added considerable dimension to both Sheldrake's and Haines characters.  Each character struggles with his faith in one fashion or another.  In contrast, Laura takes longer to develop, although she has center stage for a good piece of the novel.  Her fixation with David's blood may be understandable, but monomania does not make multi-faceted characters.  In truth, both Kevin and Laura are characters driven by events, and Haines is the man with his hand on the controls.  There are other characters in the book, but all lack the vividness of the central three, and are often little more than sketches and parodies. <br />This is a completely successful book.  Suspense builds well, and the finale has sufficient twists and turns to engage the most jaded reader.  My only serious criticism is that the plot is a bit too fantastical.  If a secret is being kept from Haines it somehow drops in his lap, or he accidentally stumbles over it.  There is always somebody around to help him.  Things work his way right up to the end.  Nobody's luck is that good, and it rings false after a while.  Even so, the &quot;The Devil's Cure&quot; is quite well written and enjoyable.  Oppel is new to this genre, having established himself as a successful writer of books for children and young adults.  Once he adjusts completely to a new readership I expect he will do very, very well.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-08-23
1872049:US	53082946	RU1SEUQ0SEXMO	0380728257	12527119	When the Sacred Ginmill Closes (Matthew Scudder Series)	Books	5	41	42	N	Y	Falling Uphill	I was introduced to Lawrence Block's tales of Matthew Scudder relatively recently, but I believe I have made up for lost time.  There is something about this tough guy detective that adds a level to these stories that similar series', such as Robert Parker's, do not have.  No doubt this is due to Scudder's recovery from alcoholism.  AA meetings and wisdom permeate the series, sometimes as a major theme and sometimes as background music.  It never interferes with the story itself but it adds much to Scudder's character and makes the tales more accessible.<br />&quot;When the Sacred Ginmill Closes&quot; was written in 1986.  Scudder narrates from the viewpoint of that year, but the story actually takes place 10 years earlier, when Scudder was still drinking heavily.  It is very much a bar story; most of the action takes place in and around these establishments in New York City and its environs.  There are many Irish in the story, as players, bartenders and owners, so there is always just a dash of an accent in the air.  When the wife of one friend is murdered, and the illegal accounting records of another are stolen, Matthew Scudder is drawn in as 'a friend who does favors for money.'  Scudder, an ex-cop who left the force when a ricocheting bullet accidentally killed a child, survives by being a not quite private eye in the moments between drinks.<br />This is a tough story, about hard-bitten people.  While drinking hasn't destroyed the lives of any of Scudder's friends yet, it has hollowed many of them out.  Beneath the smiling exteriors lie anger and greed and sorrow.  As Matthew digs and considers in his search for answers, he uncovers much of the masquerade.  This is a story about betrayals, some subtle and some not.  Most readers will quickly single out the killer, but the nature of the crime and its aftermath unfold slowly, until Scudder is unable to know and not take action.  The story of the theft is a separate thread, full of humor and melancholy, and is true detective fiction<br />While the theme of &quot;When the Sacred Ginmill Closes&quot; is somber, it's mood is kept light by the dry wit of Block's telling.  Characters are limned with quick sure strokes and the rhythm of the dialog keeps the story moving easily along.  The novel draws its title from a Dave Van Ronk song -- &quot;Last Call.&quot;  The verses tell the real story that lies beneath the action; &quot;And so we've had another night of poetry and poses.  And each man knows he'll be alone when the sacred ginmill closes.&quot;  This is a novel that steadily grows on the reader, providing much to think about.e detective fiction<br />While the theme of &quot;When the Sacred Ginmill Closes&quot; is somber, it's mood is kept light by the dry wit of Block's telling.  Characters are limned with quick sure strokes and the rhythm of the dialog keeps the story moving easily along.  The novel draws its title from a Dave Van Ronk song -- &quot;Last Call.&quot;  The verses tell the real story that lies beneath the action; &quot;And so we've had another night of poetry and poses.  And each man knows he'll be alone when the sacred ginmill closes.&quot;  This is a novel that steadily grows on the reader, providing much to think about.	2001-08-19
1872986:US	53082946	R4753XYOCA0VY	0380978954	476581890	The Truth: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Truth Shall Make Us Fret	Ankh-Morpork is one of Discworld's greatest gems.  A huge city composed of everything unusual and odd.  The people are a mixture of all the races and personality types that inhabit Terry Pratchett's rich fantasies.  Some are almost normal, but most have quirks of the most extreme nature.  Each, from the lowest talking dog to the highest flying university official has a story or two to tell.  No wonder, then, that movable type was invented in Ankh-Morpork and that, shortly thereafter, the first newspaper rolled off the presses.<br />The hero of this tale is William de Worde, errant scion of an influential family.  William was already using the engraver's guild to create a small gossip letter that earned him a minimal living.  A chance meeting with a flying object introduced him to Gunilla Goodmountain, the printer.  In short order, overwhelmed by the lure of technology, his gossip letter has turned into a full fledged daily newspaper, 'The Ankh-Morpork Times.'  William's only quibble was that The Times should always report the truth, whether it was a report of a funny looking vegetable or an interview with Lord Vetinari, the Patrician of the city.<br />As you might imagine a compulsion to tell the truth can have a disastrous effect on one's life expectancy in a city like Ankh-Morpork, where corruption is considered a delicacy.  When William discovers that Lord Vetinari's attempt to abscond with a good piece if the treasury was much, much more, serious trouble begins.  He find's himself under the scrutiny of the Ankh-Morpork Watch (they may be slow, but they are very dogged) and Mr. Pin and Mr. Tulip, the Ollie and Stan of the criminal world.  William must also stand up to the opposition of the Engraver's Guild.  Fearing that movable type will put engravers out of business, the Guild starts up its own newspaper, a fine example of the scandal sheet.  Not limited to telling the truth, they quickly become serious competition.<br />If you love quirky characters, Pratchett's your writer.  And Ankh-Morpork is your town.  Helping William out at the newspaper is the beautiful Sacharissa Cripslock, who started out Clean and Respectable but rapidly turns into a reporter with a flair for the business.  Then we have the twelve people who live under Misbegot Bridge (in only 5 bodies) and the legendary, ever present talking dog.  And don't forget the inevitable appearance of DEATH himself.<br />But the very best character of &quot;The Truth&quot; is Otto Chriek the recovering vampire.  Otto is a member of the Uberwald Temperance League and now never drinks human 'b-word.'  He hires on to the Times as an iconographer (with a demon powered camera) and quickly proves himself indespensable.  Or as indispensable as a vampire can be who keeps vaporizing himself when he takes flash pictures.<br />As you can tell, &quot;The Truth&quot; is another Pratchett classic.  While not quite the equal of &quot;Thief of Time&quot; and &quot;Small Gods,&quot; it's still upper echelon.  Pratchett manages to make fun of everything he comes upon without ever really offending, and his use of vulgarity is hardly vulgar. Sometimes I suspect that Pratchett would even be funnier if I was familiar with British slang, but I catch enough of the jokes to wince and chortle and to scare the cats.  Have fun!!tt's your writer.  And Ankh-Morpork is your town.  Helping William out at the newspaper is the beautiful Sacharissa Cripslock, who started out Clean and Respectable but rapidly turns into a reporter with a flair for the business.  Then we have the twelve people who live under Misbegot Bridge (in only 5 bodies) and the legendary, ever present talking dog.  And don't forget the inevitable appearance of DEATH himself.<br />But the very best character of &quot;The Truth&quot; is Otto Chriek the recovering vampire.  Otto is a member of the Uberwald Temperance League and now never drinks human 'b-word.'  He hires on to the Times as an iconographer (with a demon powered camera) and quickly proves himself indespensable.  Or as indispensable as a vampire can be who keeps vaporizing himself when he takes flash pictures.<br />As you can tell, &quot;The Truth&quot; is another Pratchett classic.  While not quite the equal of &quot;Thief of Time&quot; and &quot;Small Gods,&quot; it's still upper echelon.  Pratchett manages to make fun of everything he comes upon without ever really offending, and his use of vulgarity is hardly vulgar. Sometimes I suspect that Pratchett would even be funnier if I was familiar with British slang, but I catch enough of the jokes to wince and chortle and to scare the cats.  Have fun!!	2001-08-18
1873767:US	53082946	RFJA222QEV8HV	0814402178	854675301	Voices of Diversity: Real People Talk About Problems and Solutions in a Workplace Where Everyone Is Not Alike	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fine Combination of Information and How To	As interested in diversity management as I am, I find much of the written material a bit dry and academic.  Perhaps writers compensate for the strong feelings that this work brings up by trying to create some sense of distance.  In any case, there is a real lack of simple, down to earth texts that are both effective and easy to assimilate.  &quot;Voices of Diversity&quot; is the exception to all of this.  As the subtitle indicates, the material in the book is based on the content of interviews and discussions with many individuals, and the vitality of their expression permeates the entire work.<br />The book starts out with some generic introductory material and then starts to go through the interview findings in a straightforward, group by group fashion.  There are seperate chapters on African-Americans, Asian-Americans, Latinos, recent immigrants, workers with disabilities, younger and older workers, gays and lesbians, women, and white men.  Two groups that were left out, which I feel should have been included are Jewish and Arab-American which are often, mistakenly lumped together with white male.  Nor is much attention paid to religious or socio-economic diversity.<br />The chapters themselves start out with general discussion.  They then go on to introduce the statements made by interviewees and discuss the stories behind them.  Then several scenarios of workplace situations are introduced.  After each scenario sections discuss what went wrong and what might have been done differently.  I found this material very useful.  Getting some insight into how the affected people felt and what they thought is tremendously useful in getting to the source of the real problem.  The material on what should have been done provides good examples of simple, considerate and respectful behavior which could be the basis for finding common ground and resolving issues.<br />The book dates from 1994, but is still quite timely in 2001.  Renee Blank and Sandra Slipp have a crisp, clear writing style that makes for easy reading.  Not only is the book good reference material, but it would be a fine teaching tool for a discussion group.  I would recommend &quot;Voices of Diversity&quot; for everyone's diversity reading list.r writing style that makes for easy reading.  Not only is the book good reference material, but it would be a fine teaching tool for a discussion group.  I would recommend &quot;Voices of Diversity&quot; for everyone's diversity reading list.	2001-08-17
1876320:US	53082946	R14CYRC9LC5ZM7	1891946013	570166430	Night Prayers: A Vampire Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	Come to the Cabaret...	How would you feel if your latest in a long string of short term boyfriends reveals he is a vampire?  He beds you, bites you, and, without a by or a leave, rides off into the sunset.  Leaving you a vampire yourself, sexy, powerful, and totally uninformed about what to do next.  Well, that's exactly what happens to Allison Garrett.  Clueless and hungry, she wanders through Las Angeles snacking on strangers, until she falls into the hands of Luci, owner of the Fur Pit cabaret, and vampiress extraordinary.  Luci and her cohorts are topless fur dancers in Los Angeles only strip joint for furverts.  Luci's cohorts are Miriam, who has a gruesome fondness for cats, Gina, a tough, irritable vampire with a yen for Luci, and now, Allison.<br />The human contingent at Luci's consists of Gypsy, a happy go lucky biker type who tends bar and stops fights and Mica, who touts at the entrance.  Attracting customers is Mica's night job.  During the day He is a bible toting street evangelist, trying to save the souls of the local residents.  Needless to say, this is a difficult task in Los Angeles, and Mica frequently comes back from his soul saving stints with as many brochures as he started out with.  Mica is a bit young, and alarmingly nave.  He has managed to miss the fact that the Fur Pit is not just your ordinary den of iniquity.  Mica's holiness helps by keeping him pretty close to indigestible (he makes Allison sneeze) but Luci's pet project it to lure Mica from his sanctified state.<br />What happens as Allison attempts to adjust to her to role in unlife and Mica finds he has to temper his lust for the sexy new vampire or be bitten out of going to heaven is the true plot of &quot;Night Prayers.&quot;  Not really a horror story, or a romance, but simply a vampiric comedy of errors with a plot that adds new meaning to the phrase 'willing suspension of disbelief.'  All the vampires can read each others minds, which makes it tough for Allison to hide all of her disbelief in Luci's line of gab.  Gina is always trying to kill someone, usually Allison.  This has something to do with the 'liking' Luci has taken for the newest.  Mica is head over bible in love with Allison as well.  When he discovers they are all vampires he spends half his time trying to stake her and the other half trying to...  Well, we won't go there.<br />&quot;Night Prayers&quot; is almost successful.  It teeters between funny and serious until the reader gives up trying to resolve the issue.  It actually is pretty plotless, which is a rare complaint for a book that is only 220 pages.  But the worst fault in my mind is that every single character is a stereotype.  The two that are potentially the most offensive are Gina, the big, bad black woman, and Mica the bible thumping, born-again lay preacher with a heart filled with lust.  Gina is almost acceptable, but many fundamentalists might find Mica's character upsetting, and I wouldn't blame them.  The story is readable, so it gets its three stars, but I won't be looking out for a sequel.i's line of gab.  Gina is always trying to kill someone, usually Allison.  This has something to do with the 'liking' Luci has taken for the newest.  Mica is head over bible in love with Allison as well.  When he discovers they are all vampires he spends half his time trying to stake her and the other half trying to...  Well, we won't go there.<br />&quot;Night Prayers&quot; is almost successful.  It teeters between funny and serious until the reader gives up trying to resolve the issue.  It actually is pretty plotless, which is a rare complaint for a book that is only 220 pages.  But the worst fault in my mind is that every single character is a stereotype.  The two that are potentially the most offensive are Gina, the big, bad black woman, and Mica the bible thumping, born-again lay preacher with a heart filled with lust.  Gina is almost acceptable, but many fundamentalists might find Mica's character upsetting, and I wouldn't blame them.  The story is readable, so it gets its three stars, but I won't be looking out for a sequel.	2001-08-15
1880963:US	53082946	R12H3RIDT9YTOD	1931402191	650971910	Riverwatch	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	One of This Year's Sleepers	Modern horror writers are under continuous pressure to innovate.  Vampires run nightclubs, ghouls haunt the Internet and serial killers are masters of culinary science.  It is very unusual for an author to tackle a traditional plot and bring it to successful fruition.  So I was much surprised to discover that Joseph Nassise had produced a fine, spirited tale of horror and suspense that could have taken place almost any time in the past 200 years and been just as readable as it is in it's modern setting.<br />In classic form, this story starts out with the discovery of a hidden passageway beneath a river that ran through the cellar of an old New England mansion.  Jake Caruso, who restores historic homes discovers the passageway when he drains the river, and follows it to an ancient Blake family crypt.  What Jake and Sheriff Damon Wilson find in the crypt is a frightening statue of a weird half-snake half-bat creature and the bloodless body of a would be thief.  Unbeknownst to Jake and Damon the corpse's blood has awakened a nightmare creature from humanity's prehistory past.<br />Moloch is the last of one a race that predated humanity; he is a Nightshade, a highly intelligent creature that feeds on blood and terror.  To Moloch, we are herd animals, meat to be used and destroyed.  Opposing him is Gabriel, once a member of the Elders who battled the Nightshades and sought to help mankind advance.  Now he is a dying old man in a nursing home, desperately trying to pass his knowledge on to Jake's friend, Sam Travers.  When Jake gives his girlfriend Katelynn Riley a strange necklace he found at the crypt she finds herself able to ride Moloch's mind.<br />As Moloch carves a bloody path through Harrington Falls these three young people, with the help of the sheriff, must find the strength to defeat an almost indestructible horror.  Nassise paints his characters with all their humanity, rather than creating two dimensional heroes.  As such, their mistakes and fears make an otherwise fantastic tale easily believable.  From start to spectacular finish the plot never flags.  Moloch's nonchalant and consuming violence steadily builds suspense and momentum.  For a first novel, &quot;Riverwatch&quot; is very well crafted with good balance between plot, atmospheric narrative, and characterization.  My only gripes are that there a several editing errors, and that a subplot involving the Blake family (owners of the mansion) seems to have been cut down to the bone at some point.  Still, I give Nassise's tale a full recommendation, and hope he goes on to write more.otherwise fantastic tale easily believable.  From start to spectacular finish the plot never flags.  Moloch's nonchalant and consuming violence steadily builds suspense and momentum.  For a first novel, &quot;Riverwatch&quot; is very well crafted with good balance between plot, atmospheric narrative, and characterization.  My only gripes are that there a several editing errors, and that a subplot involving the Blake family (owners of the mansion) seems to have been cut down to the bone at some point.  Still, I give Nassise's tale a full recommendation, and hope he goes on to write more.	2001-08-12
1881143:US	53082946	RX5MLIA5I0Z8G	0380731142	945800558	The Dead Sea Cipher	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Another Vintage Peters Reissue	Much to my delight there seems to be no end to the output of Elizabeth Peters.  My count of the inside cover list of this recent reissue (which was first published in 1970) lists 31 novels, which is an astounding output.  Especially since they are rarely repetitious and also have plenty of the old Peters charm.  While she tends to write 'comfy' mysteries, with a romantic twist, she manages to provide basic entertainment for all her readers.  Another surprise for the reader is how well her stories hold up to time.  Even this one, set in the Middle East, is as fresh as if it had been written yesterday<br />&quot;The Dead Sea Cipher&quot; is somewhat more serious than the Peabody series or &quot;Summer of the Dragon,&quot; but it still has plenty of humorous touches.  When singer Dinah van der Lyn overhears an argument and murder in her Beirut hotel room she finds that her archeological tour through the Middle East is to be perpetually interrupted by a procession of spies and government officials.  Two of these, Tony Cartwright and Geoffrey Smith, seem to crop up everywhere but the bathroom.  She knows that at least one of them is a spy, but is never sure which.<br />Dinah becomes more and more frustrated as her tour of sites from Byblos to Jerusalem is perpetually disturbed by the appearance of one or the other of these gentleman.  Both want her to reveal what she overheard, and neither believes that she knows nothing.  Despite that fact that she has no understanding of Arabic.  She manages to work out that Tony, Jeff, and a whole host of other agents are chasing after rumors of a new set of Dead Sea scrolls.  Even that information is of little help to her in what becomes a comic peripatetic chase through archeological sites and ancient churches.<br />Common to all Peters novels, there is no lack of gem-like characters.  Dinah finds herself touring in a touring limousine with French newlyweds, a British widow, a priest, a doctor, and a Dutch diplomat with his attach&eacute;.  Dinah suspects all of them at one time or another.  Certainly, all contribute to the confusion as they seem to tumble towards the surprise conclusion.  This isn't so much a 'whodunnit' as it is a 'whatisgoingon' type novel.  As usual, it is all over too soon, and we find ourselves wishing for yet another Peters novel with its own fresh and audacious heroine..  Dinah suspects all of them at one time or another.  Certainly, all contribute to the confusion as they seem to tumble towards the surprise conclusion.  This isn't so much a 'whodunnit' as it is a 'whatisgoingon' type novel.  As usual, it is all over too soon, and we find ourselves wishing for yet another Peters novel with its own fresh and audacious heroine.	2001-08-12
1881534:US	53082946	R5MVKRRCZS3JR	0451458397	536795774	The Burning Time (Shadowrun #40)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The Past is a Lit Fuse	It feels like it's been forever since I've seen a new novel in the Shadowrun series.  I had begun to think that FASA had lost interest in an extremely successful game setting.  This would be a shame, as Shadowrun's world is richly defined, with nearly endless possibilities.  Set in the middle of the 21st century, it is a world where magic has been reborn and technology has advanced to the point where it is nearly out of control.  Corporations are independent fiefdoms, beholden to no government and the governments have so many hidden agendas that none can be trusted.  Elves, humans, orcs, and trolls all uneasily coexist, and magical creatures such as elementals and dragons have returned.  On the technical side, huge advancements in bionics and microcircuits provide endless possibilities for human 'improvement.'  Virtual reality is easily confused with the real world, and the Matrix is a vast and dangerous electronic wilderness.<br />This is the 'Sixth World' where power and poverty exist face to face.  Many have fallen through the cracks of society.  All of these factors blend together to create a world where those who are willing to risk can get a chance at the golden ring.  These are the shadowrunners, teams for hire that operate in the dark underworld.  Their ethics are variable and their life expectancy is often short.  One such team is run by Talon, a mage, with Aracos, his familiar spirit.  He is joined by Trouble, a decker who provides Matrix support for the team.  Valkyrie, also human, is a rigger who plugs in to run the team's hardware.  Boom, the troll provides muscle when he isn't running a nightclub, backed up by Hammer, an orc.<br />The team has been hired to steal technical information and bio-weapons from Cross Applied Technologies.  While setting up the theft, Talon sudden sees Jason, who was his lover, and the man who taught him to be a mage.  Jason has been dead for 15 years and Talon nearly blows the deal when he realizes he is seeing a ghost.  Haunted by Jason, and Gallow, the demonic spirit Talon called up to avenge his death, Jason struggles to complete the run.  He finds he must deal with betrayal within betrayal when the team discovers that the 'nauseant' they thought they were stealing is a key ingredient in a devastating poison gas and the team must race against time to prevent disaster and destroy Gallow forever.<br />Stephen Kenson has written the classic Shadowrun tale, full of gritty action, good friends, and deadly enemies.  FASA writers are noted for consistently high writing standards, with careful attention to details and characterization.  Kenson is no exception.  His deals with Talon's homosexuality and its effects openly and frankly, without blowing it out of proportion.  All of the characters spring to life on the pages.  This is a super read.  Be careful or you'll down it all in one sitting!aunted by Jason, and Gallow, the demonic spirit Talon called up to avenge his death, Jason struggles to complete the run.  He finds he must deal with betrayal within betrayal when the team discovers that the 'nauseant' they thought they were stealing is a key ingredient in a devastating poison gas and the team must race against time to prevent disaster and destroy Gallow forever.<br />Stephen Kenson has written the classic Shadowrun tale, full of gritty action, good friends, and deadly enemies.  FASA writers are noted for consistently high writing standards, with careful attention to details and characterization.  Kenson is no exception.  His deals with Talon's homosexuality and its effects openly and frankly, without blowing it out of proportion.  All of the characters spring to life on the pages.  This is a super read.  Be careful or you'll down it all in one sitting!	2001-08-11
1881869:US	53082946	R34FNOTRT9I4J3	1887368396	325378450	Hosts (Repairman Jack)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The Return of Repairman Jack	When Jeanette Vega is diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor she is offered the chance to participate in an experimental treatment program using a tailored virus.  A miracle cure follows, but what she or her lover Kate Iverson hadn't bargained for was the strange personality change which followed the treatment.  Slowly but surely Jeanette is pulling away from Kate, and joins in a cult-like enclave with her fellow patients.  When Kate is given Repairman Jack's card as a possible source of help, she makes contact.  To the amazement of both Jack and Kate, they have already met - Jack is the brother who dropped out of their family after their mother was killed.<br />Jack has his own problems to deal with.  Caught on a subway train with a mass murderer, he goes into action, shoots the killer and saves dozens of lives.  Unfortunately, another passenger is Sandy Palmer, a third string reporter for a New York scandal sheet, who realizes this story is a chance to make it into the big time.  Jack, who has made a career out of being totally anonymous, sees only that publicity will destroy his hard won independence.  He is willing to do everything in his power to deflect Sandy's well meant attention.<br />In a Manhattan Delicatessen Joe and Stan Koslowski are reading Sandy's report on the train shootings when they realize that the hero Sandy is describing is their old nemesis.  The brothers once made a living blowing people up until Jack was hired to return the favor.  He left them alive, but destroyed up their home, their stash, and their reputation.  Joe, disfigured in the final conflagration has only one thing on his mind - revenge.<br />And spread throughout the city are eight people, all treated by a mutated virus which has changed them utterly.  Their brain tumors are gone, but so is their personality.  Instead they are united by a telepathic hive mind.  The virus that drives them has only one goal, to survive, to mutate, and to spread until it is the master of its world.<br />F. Paul Wilson weaves all these threads together in the kind of tightly plotted novel which is characteristic of the Repairman Jack series.  This time, however, Jack may be in over his head.  He may be able to stave off Sandy, and he may be able to befuddle the Koslowski's, but he has no hope of finding a cure for a mysterious virus.  For once, the Repairman lacks the tools to do the job.  It will take far more than Jack to resolve this problem, and he finds himself blocked at every turn.<br />This is a typical Wilson novel, well plotted, but a bit thin in characterization.  After five novels in the series Jack had developed little, nor has Gia, his girlfriend.  In fact all of the original characters are just as they were.  This makes &quot;Hosts&quot; comfortable to read, but the characters are now so familiar they are almost parodies of themselves.  The only real twist in this novel is that Jack must come to terms with Kate's homosexuality.  A factor that deserved more attention than it received.<br />The Repairman Jack novels started out as horror stories with a strong supernatural bent, and have gradually become suspense stories with a slight touch of the spooky.  The only hint of the weird is a strange Russian lady with a white Malamute who warns both Kate and Jack of trouble.  It is she wo tells us that there is more to come.  This has been an eminently readable series, and I look forward to far more of Repairman Jack.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readerd. <br />F. Paul Wilson weaves all these threads together in the kind of tightly plotted novel which is characteristic of the Repairman Jack series.  This time, however, Jack may be in over his head.  He may be able to stave off Sandy, and he may be able to befuddle the Koslowski's, but he has no hope of finding a cure for a mysterious virus.  For once, the Repairman lacks the tools to do the job.  It will take far more than Jack to resolve this problem, and he finds himself blocked at every turn.<br />This is a typical Wilson novel, well plotted, but a bit thin in characterization.  After five novels in the series Jack had developed little, nor has Gia, his girlfriend.  In fact all of the original characters are just as they were.  This makes &quot;Hosts&quot; comfortable to read, but the characters are now so familiar they are almost parodies of themselves.  The only real twist in this novel is that Jack must come to terms with Kate's homosexuality.  A factor that deserved more attention than it received.<br />The Repairman Jack novels started out as horror stories with a strong supernatural bent, and have gradually become suspense stories with a slight touch of the spooky.  The only hint of the weird is a strange Russian lady with a white Malamute who warns both Kate and Jack of trouble.  It is she wo tells us that there is more to come.  This has been an eminently readable series, and I look forward to far more of Repairman Jack.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-08-11
1884064:US	53082946	R16R5WBK1H1LU1	0886774713	727303671	Blood Price: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	4	128	132	N	N	Make Room For Victoria	Tanya Huff has been turning out fine fantasy work for some time now.  &quot;Blood Price,&quot; an early effort from 1991, is the first volume of a vampire series that focuses on three main characters.  The first of these is Victoria Nelson, once a homicide inspector with the Toronto police, she has been forced to retire by the start of retinitis pigmentosa.  Tough and intelligent, Vicki refuses to be beaten by the disease and has set up as a private detective.  Mike Celluci was Vicki's partner on the force and her lover as well.  Anger over Vicki's decision to leave the police force has separated the two lovers, but sparks still fly when they are together.  Their bickering disguised a deeply held mutual affection.<br />A sudden rash of hideous killings, throats torn out and blood drained, brings Vicki and Mike back together.  As the body count mounts Vicki begins to suspect that the killer is not quite human.  The newspapers warn of a vampire, but Mike refuses to believe that any such creature can exist.  Vicki is not so sure.  When she manages to be present at the next killing she discovers Henry Fitzroy at the death scene.  Henry, a handsome, intelligent writer of romantic novels, manages to convince Vicki that he is not the killer.  But to do so he must reveal that he is a 450 year old vampire, the illegitimate son of Henry VIII, no less.<br />Henry realizes what Vicki does not.  The killer is not a rogue vampire, but a demon, called into service by someone in the city.  But the creature serves two masters, the human who called him and one of the greater demons of hell.  By using the killings to spell the name of the greater demon across the Toronto landscape, this evil force intends to open the way for a reign of terror on the earth.  All Vicki and Henry have to do is identify which of the greater demons is trying to cross over, catch the lesser demon, and stop the human mage who is casting the summonings.  Piece of cake.<br />The three investigators, separately and together are challenged to a race against time.  Hampered by Vicki's night blindness, Henry's vampire hours, and Mike's refusal to consider an inhuman killer, it will take all of their energy and a fair amount of luck to track down the elusive magic user.  There are lots of plot twists, some hair-raising brushes with death, and very satisfying conclusion.  This is a fine start to what will develop into an exciting series.<br />Inevitably, the reader will make comparisons between Vicki Nelson and Hamilton's Anita Blake.  They have much in common.  Their personalities are similar, but Vicki doesn't quite have the attitude that Blake does.  Of course, Anita has far more powers than Vicky does.  And Henry, while attractive, is no Jean-Claude.  All of Huff's characters, even while they are squabbling, have far better manners.  Hamilton is a stronger author, but saying so is unfair to Huff, who is hardly lacking in writing skills.  If readers are willing to judge this fine series on its own merits I think no one will be disappointed.  If you are looking for a new Anita Blake, seek elsewhere.and together are challenged to a race against time.  Hampered by Vicki's night blindness, Henry's vampire hours, and Mike's refusal to consider an inhuman killer, it will take all of their energy and a fair amount of luck to track down the elusive magic user.  There are lots of plot twists, some hair-raising brushes with death, and very satisfying conclusion.  This is a fine start to what will develop into an exciting series.<br />Inevitably, the reader will make comparisons between Vicki Nelson and Hamilton's Anita Blake.  They have much in common.  Their personalities are similar, but Vicki doesn't quite have the attitude that Blake does.  Of course, Anita has far more powers than Vicky does.  And Henry, while attractive, is no Jean-Claude.  All of Huff's characters, even while they are squabbling, have far better manners.  Hamilton is a stronger author, but saying so is unfair to Huff, who is hardly lacking in writing skills.  If readers are willing to judge this fine series on its own merits I think no one will be disappointed.  If you are looking for a new Anita Blake, seek elsewhere.	2001-08-09
1885511:US	53082946	R2X6ZH8LBW2M5Z	0451451430	249749712	Nightseer	Books	4	160	163	N	Y	Another Hamilton Entirely	After reading all 8 of Laurell Hamilton's Anita Blake series and &quot;A Kiss of Shadows&quot; I honestly thought I knew what to expect from Hamilton as a writer.  When her debut novel was recently re-released I naturally picked it up, expecting to find the 'prototype' of the Blake series.  I was more than a little surprised to find that &quot;Nightseer&quot; was in another genre entirely and that Laurell Hamilton is capable of excellent traditional fantasy.  One can see hints of Anita in Keleios Nightseer, but for the most part it is as if we had stepped into an entirely different world.<br />Noble half elf Keleios is endowed with three magical powers.  Originally she was a master enchanter and a skilled prophet.  Suddenly she demonstrated powers as a sorcerer, and has had to relinquish her master rank and return to the school at Zeln's Keep to learn to control her new power.  When Keleios was a child her mother was destroyed by the black witch Harque.  In Keleios' quest for revenge she has walked the pit of Hell, and bears the mark of demonic corruption.  Although she is not comfortable with the taint, she is able to control both black and white disciplines.  In addition, she is also expert with weapons, particularly those bespelled or enchanted.<br />Entering a state of prophecy in the dreaming rooms at Zeln's Keep, Keleios has a horrible vision, the Keep under attack and destroyed, many of the residents enslaved or killed.  She barely has time so make her warnings before the attack is under way.  The Keep betrayed by one of Harque's own students.  Against demonic forces Keleios is only able to assemble a small group of survivors.  Lothor the dark healer, whose price is betrothal, Tobin, companion mage and close friend, Master Eroar, a true dragon and Poth, the cat.  This team is betrayed into the hands of Harque and must struggle to free themselves from the witch and her minions.<br />This is pretty strong stuff.  Hamilton, especially in her earlier novels is capable of managing a tremendous amount of plot complexity and action.  The only time for relaxation here comes right after the words 'the end.'  Hamilton also builds her characters very naturally.  Unlike the Blake series, &quot;Nightseer&quot; is written in the third person, but Hamilton provides plenty of insight into Keleios, and makes masterful use of dialogue to flesh out the rest of the characters.  This is a very skilled performance for a debut novel.  Somewhat reminiscent of Barbara Hambly's work.<br />My only complaint is that &quot;Nightseer&quot; feels like the middle volume of a trilogy.  There is clearly a great deal of story that preceded it, and too many threads are left incomplete at the end.  One can only hope that someday Laurell Hamilton will be motivated to return to Keleios' world and tell the rest of the story.pable of managing a tremendous amount of plot complexity and action.  The only time for relaxation here comes right after the words 'the end.'  Hamilton also builds her characters very naturally.  Unlike the Blake series, &quot;Nightseer&quot; is written in the third person, but Hamilton provides plenty of insight into Keleios, and makes masterful use of dialogue to flesh out the rest of the characters.  This is a very skilled performance for a debut novel.  Somewhat reminiscent of Barbara Hambly's work.<br />My only complaint is that &quot;Nightseer&quot; feels like the middle volume of a trilogy.  There is clearly a great deal of story that preceded it, and too many threads are left incomplete at the end.  One can only hope that someday Laurell Hamilton will be motivated to return to Keleios' world and tell the rest of the story.	2001-08-08
1887056:US	53082946	R2GLQXP9N6M4FS	0553580094	599241935	The Murder Channel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Unfinished Business	Fifteen years ago teenager Felix Zrbny finished his paper route, picked up a knife and slaughtered three woman in his neighborhood.  Since that time he has been institutionalized.  On the way to a hearing for his release, Felix is accidentally allowed to escape.  Now he is loose in the streets of Boston, getting ready to take up where he left off.  Lucas Frank, a retired forensic psychiatrist, was brought in to testify at the hearing, and now finds himself drawn into the search for Felix by his old friend Ray Bolton.  In the meantime Zrbny is hiding under the cover of a record snowstorm that has blanketed Boston.<br />Frank and Bolton quickly discover that there are other forces at work, that other agendas are interfering with their manhunt.  Wendy Pouldice, owner of Boston Trial Television has kept in touch with Felix since his sister was kidnapped, two years before his first murder spree.  BTT cameras seem to appear wherever Felix is.  Is Wendy using her connection with Felix to increase her station's marketshare?  Dermott Fremont is head of Vigil a militia group that seems to have it's own plan for Felix.  They too seem to show up everywhere, usually with bloody results.  Neville Waycross has become a street monk after Felix killed his wife.  He joins in the hunt, but his motivation is unclear.<br />Philpin chooses to alternate narration between Frank and Zrbny.  Normally I don't like dual narration, but both characters are so interesting that this device works perfectly.  Frank, after too many rough cases in Boston, has retired to Northern Michigan, where he relishes the quiet and the isolation.  Frank is not a classic courtroom psychiatrist.  Instead he is every bit as involved as any other investigator.  Frank, bluffs, bullies, shoots, and finesses his way to the facts that will help him to get inside Zrbny's head.<br />And Zrbny's head turns out to be a very interesting place!  As the story gradually fills in the blanks in his past, Zrbny become an almost sympathetic character.  Of imposing size and intelligence, Felix displays both psychotic and sociopathic traits, making him and extremely dangerous killer.  But he is aware of his psychological state and understands that he is using death as a way to manipulate symbols in the public eye.  He is also capable of concern and conscience in his relationships.  He has a sense of honor, and he is capable of remarkable insights into human behavior.  I wouldn't call him sympathetic, but the reader will feel an attraction to him.<br />The drama builds in unexpected fashion to a truly surprising conclusion.  Philpin displays fine writing skills, knowing just when to describe, when to build character, and when to move the plot forward.  This is the fourth Lucas Frank novel Philpin has written or collaborated on, and I fully intend to read the others.  If you are a fan of the serial killer genre put &quot;The Murder Channel&quot; on your must buy list.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readerpathetic character.  Of imposing size and intelligence, Felix displays both psychotic and sociopathic traits, making him and extremely dangerous killer.  But he is aware of his psychological state and understands that he is using death as a way to manipulate symbols in the public eye.  He is also capable of concern and conscience in his relationships.  He has a sense of honor, and he is capable of remarkable insights into human behavior.  I wouldn't call him sympathetic, but the reader will feel an attraction to him.<br />The drama builds in unexpected fashion to a truly surprising conclusion.  Philpin displays fine writing skills, knowing just when to describe, when to build character, and when to move the plot forward.  This is the fourth Lucas Frank novel Philpin has written or collaborated on, and I fully intend to read the others.  If you are a fan of the serial killer genre put &quot;The Murder Channel&quot; on your must buy list.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-08-07
1890310:US	53082946	R1ROBERKO41B5H	0967370132	228902482	The Family Man	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Extended Family	Michael Patterson's &quot;The Family Man&quot; starts out with a very interesting premise.  Ellen and Eric Sommers are a young professional couple who have finally managed to conceive a child.  Even as they are receiving these tidings, Frank Mallory is preparing to put into action a scheme to create a family by kidnapping a pregnant woman and taking her up to his cabin in the Canadian wilderness.  Frank's planning is superb.  Not only does he abduct Ellen; he also leaves manufactured evidence that points to Eric as Ellen's murderer.  As the demonic Mallory makes good his escape to Canada, Eric is accused and brought to trial for a crime that did not happen.<br />The remainder of the novel actually is three connected stories.  Ellen and Frank act out a serial killer suspense story, while Eric tale becomes a courtroom drama.  Connecting these two stories is the efforts of Cheryl, Ellen's sister, Ralph Bartlett, a private investigator and David Dreizler, one of Eric's attorneys to track down Ellen's whereabouts.  Ellen finds herself trapped in the wilderness with a man who is never more than seconds from fearsome violence.  Eric, confronted with a hostile legal system finds he is standing trial for his life.  Mallory has left only the scantiest of clues, and Ellen has little luck in her efforts to get help.<br />Despite the unusual plot, &quot;The Family Man&quot; left me somewhat unsatisfied.  One of the reasons is an excessive number of context shifts.  There are 88 chapters in a 341 page book, and many of these chapters switch from one narrative to another.  I believe this is a narrative style that is intended to give the impression of a flurry of action, but I found it distracting.  It took much longer than usual for me to get the plot straight in my mind and begin to be absorbed into the story.  This style also leaves little time for the niceties of narrative description that help to make a book believable.<br />Characterization also suffers.  I felt very little connection with either of the protagonists.  Indeed, the most vivid characters are Cheryl and the sheriff of the Canadian town nearest to Mallory's cabin - Roger Peck.  One could argue that the minor characters in the book received too much attention and the main characters to little.  It is half way through the book before what lies behind Frank's fantasy of family life is revealed.  Even knowing that, Frank is monochromatic and predictable, lacking in the depth that could have made him a compelling character.<br />Eventually, the plot begins to gel and pique the reader's interest.  The last half of the novel moves with some pace, and gradually picks up as the end approaches.  So &quot;The Family Man&quot; is not a bad novel, just one that fails to meet its ambitions.  It is almost as if an editor decided to cut what was once a 700 page novel down to just a minimalist plot.  This would be a perfect book for readers who are often interrupted.  For those who prefer long silences filled with imagination, Michael Patterson would need to add more flesh to its bare bones.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Readeronnection with either of the protagonists.  Indeed, the most vivid characters are Cheryl and the sheriff of the Canadian town nearest to Mallory's cabin - Roger Peck.  One could argue that the minor characters in the book received too much attention and the main characters to little.  It is half way through the book before what lies behind Frank's fantasy of family life is revealed.  Even knowing that, Frank is monochromatic and predictable, lacking in the depth that could have made him a compelling character.<br />Eventually, the plot begins to gel and pique the reader's interest.  The last half of the novel moves with some pace, and gradually picks up as the end approaches.  So &quot;The Family Man&quot; is not a bad novel, just one that fails to meet its ambitions.  It is almost as if an editor decided to cut what was once a 700 page novel down to just a minimalist plot.  This would be a perfect book for readers who are often interrupted.  For those who prefer long silences filled with imagination, Michael Patterson would need to add more flesh to its bare bones.<br />Marc Ruby - for The Mystery Reader	2001-08-05
1891425:US	53082946	R1X7PH2PQVUD74	0786918772	953467653	Dragon's Bluff (Dragonlance:  Crossroads, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It Takes a Thief...	It's been a long time since I've read a DragonLance novel.  Probably as the result of overdosing on Weis and Hickman's books.  Recently I felt a yen to revisit the world of dragons and kenders and picked up Mary Herbert's &quot;Dragon's Bluff.&quot;  I'm not sure why I decided to read the third book in a new series, but it turns out to have been a fortuitous choice.<br />This story starts out with Ulin Majere and his betrothed, Lucy, living in Solace after the destruction of the Academy of Sorcery.  With magic failing both are making the transition to mundane lives.  Suddenly, their routines are upset when a dwarf appears from far away Flotsam and asks Lucy to journey to that town to identify a corpse - one suspected to be the body of her father, Kethril Torkay.  Lucy hasn't seen her father in 10 years and, wants to resolve her ambivalent feelings about the man who deserted her and her mother.  She also feels a need to prove herself to Ulin, who is a descendant of the famous Majeres.  When the dwarf offers 25% of her father's estate, the temptation proves to great and Lucy and Ulin set off on a hair-raising journey by boat and caravan.<br />Once arrived in Flotsam, Lucy finds that she hadn't quite been presented with all the facts.  The corpse is not Kethril, and it turns out that his 'estate' consists of the stolen treasury of Flotsam.  That treasury is desperately needed to pay the town's taxes to the fierce red dragon Fyremantle and his horrific mistress Malystryx.  Far from being able to pay Lucy, Flotsam is on the verge of destruction and desperately needs help.  On the strength of having magically converted several potatoes into firebombs and thus saving a caravan Lucy is offered the job of sheriff.  Lucy and Challis the dwarf attempt to organize the town while Ulin, with the help of Notwen the gnome attempt to track down her errant father and Flotsam's missing taxes.  Of course, nothing ever works quite according to plan and the fate of Flotsam is not decided until the last minute.<br />&quot;Dragon's Bluff&quot; turns out to be a charming story full of suspense and surprises.  I am used to heavier fare from the DragonLance series and found myself being happily entertained by the many plot twists and the fascinating residents of one of Krynn's more obscure locations.  This is by and large an upbeat story, despite being set in a land ruled by vicious and destructive dragons.  It is a grim place to be, but the denizen's of Flotsam are determined to survive.  Mary Herbert writes for pure entertainment and there is much to enjoy here.  The novels in the Crossroads series are intended to be independent tales, and this tale stands well on it's own, although some understanding of the world of Krynn would be to the reader's advantage.until the last minute.<br />&quot;Dragon's Bluff&quot; turns out to be a charming story full of suspense and surprises.  I am used to heavier fare from the DragonLance series and found myself being happily entertained by the many plot twists and the fascinating residents of one of Krynn's more obscure locations.  This is by and large an upbeat story, despite being set in a land ruled by vicious and destructive dragons.  It is a grim place to be, but the denizen's of Flotsam are determined to survive.  Mary Herbert writes for pure entertainment and there is much to enjoy here.  The novels in the Crossroads series are intended to be independent tales, and this tale stands well on it's own, although some understanding of the world of Krynn would be to the reader's advantage.	2001-08-04
1892950:US	53082946	R25IB953S2KR02	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	391	447	N	N	&quot;This Is a Bad Place For Gods...&quot;	Released from prison shortly after the accidental death of his wife, ex-con Shadow finds himself free, but bereft of all the things that gave his previous life meaning.  As he bids his farewell to the fragments of that life, an eerie stranger named Mr. Wednesday offers him employment.  Wednesday needs someone to act as aid, driver, errand boy, and, in case of Wednesday's death, someone to hold a vigil for him.  Shadow consents and finds himself drawn unsuspectingly into a cryptic reality where myth and legend coexist with today's realities.<br />Mr. Wednesday, trickster and wise man, is on a quest.  The old gods who came over to this country with each human incursion have weakened as their followers have dwindled and are now threatened with extinction by the modern gods of technology and marketing.  Wednesday travels from deity to deity, rounding up help for what will be last battle.  He engages ancient Russian gods, Norse legends, Egyptian deities, and countless others who have found their way to America in the past 10,000 or so years.  Shadow never quite understands what his role is in all of this, but he experiences visions and dreams which promise that he is far more than Wednesday's factotum.<br />The plot is unendingly inventive as it treks its way across the country.  From Chicago to Rhode Island, and Seattle to the magical town of Lakeside, Shadow's journey seems to follow the back roads of America.  The people he meets are gritty, and the gods are even grittier.  Gaiman creates believable characters with quick brush strokes and builds vivid landscapes that belie their mundane origins.  Gaiman, recently moved to the U.S. has invited us along on his own quest to discover an America uniquely his own.<br />This is a novel that resonates at many levels, it is Shadow's initiation quest, Gaiman's search for the American identity, a revisionist Twilight of the Gods, and last, but not least a captivating piece of fiction.  The gods that people this story came with people who found their way to this country from almost every time and place.  Gaiman has put his finger on once of this country's greatest truths.  Every person who ever lived here has roots from somewhere else.  We have crossed oceans and land bridges, on foot, and by every other means of transportation.  Our culture has been created whole cloth out of the character and beliefs of all those people.  Gaiman has managed to capture a bit of that vision and put it on display for the reader.<br />After his superb work in &quot;Neverwhere,&quot; &quot;Stardust,&quot; and the Sandman graphic novels, Neil Gaimon has established himself a force to be reckoned with in the crossover horror/fantasy genre.  Now with his new novel Gaiman establishes his mastery in a remarkable story of quest and transformation as he comes to terms with his own vision of America.  &quot;American Gods&quot; defies classification and invites superlatives.  This is one of 2001's must reads.eople who found their way to this country from almost every time and place.  Gaiman has put his finger on once of this country's greatest truths.  Every person who ever lived here has roots from somewhere else.  We have crossed oceans and land bridges, on foot, and by every other means of transportation.  Our culture has been created whole cloth out of the character and beliefs of all those people.  Gaiman has managed to capture a bit of that vision and put it on display for the reader.<br />After his superb work in &quot;Neverwhere,&quot; &quot;Stardust,&quot; and the Sandman graphic novels, Neil Gaimon has established himself a force to be reckoned with in the crossover horror/fantasy genre.  Now with his new novel Gaiman establishes his mastery in a remarkable story of quest and transformation as he comes to terms with his own vision of America.  &quot;American Gods&quot; defies classification and invites superlatives.  This is one of 2001's must reads.	2001-08-03
1895567:US	53082946	RKVNP12CTE1NJ	0441005241	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	The Older the Vampire, the More Vicious the Bite!!	Anita Blake's life never gets any simpler.  Now that she's decided to date only Jean-Claude, the Master of the City, her ex-boyfriend, alpha werewolf Richard, becomes impossible to deal with.  This is understandable, but when Anita interferes in lycanthrope politics to help protect several were-leopards, Richard comes into town in a serious bad mood.  Having slain Raina, the werewolf queen in the previous volume, Anita seems to have acquired a supernatural connection with the pack, and is not about to back down.  But Richard's absence has hurt the pack and there is much to be undone.<br />While Anita's relationship with Jean-Claude is going well, dating a vampire is never a simple proposition.  When a romantic dinner is interrupted by several vampires from Jean-Claude's past, Anita suspects that things are about to get complicated.  One of the vampires is Asher, once a close companion of Jean-Claude and now one of his direst enemies.  Asher was horribly scarred at the hands of the church and blames Jean-Claude for both his deformities and the death of his human servant.<br />But Asher is not the worst threat.  Several members of the European vampire council have come to St. Louis to demand an explanation for the death of another member of the council at Anita's hands (Mr. Oliver from &quot;Circus of the Damned&quot;).  These two are your worst nightmares come true.  The Traveler, who occupies the bodies of other vampires as his way of getting around, and Padma, the Master of Beasts, who can control any lycanthrope.  Both of these two are far more powerful than Jean-Claude.  And far, far nastier.  The master of St. Louis is facing the challenge of his unlife, with only Anita and a very reluctant Richard to aid him.<br />&quot;Burnt Offerings&quot; is vintage Hamilton.  With Anita's relationships with Jean-Claude and Richard settled for the present, Hamilton is free to concentrate on her typically complex plot.  Don't get me wrong, there's plenty of action there.  But there's plenty of time for all of the regulars, from Jean-Claude to Irving the werewolf reporter to become more defined as characters.  In addition, we are treated to a group of monsters horrific and perverse enough to satisfy the most spoiled of tastes.  Prepare yourself for a classic sexy/scary vampire tale.  You won't be disappointed.there's plenty of time for all of the regulars, from Jean-Claude to Irving the werewolf reporter to become more defined as characters.  In addition, we are treated to a group of monsters horrific and perverse enough to satisfy the most spoiled of tastes.  Prepare yourself for a classic sexy/scary vampire tale.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-08-01
1896869:US	53082946	R1DMQLN404SL6V	0515110752	971416081	Happy Are the Peace Makers	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Bloomsday in Dublin	Andrew Greeley has enjoyed considerable success as the writer of the Bishop Blackie Ryan novels.  Until now I had not read any of these tales.  Amazon lists &quot;Happy Are The Peacemakers&quot; as the first novel in the series and so there I decided to make my start.  It was only later that I found a bibliography that actually lists it as his sixth novel.  While starting in the middle of a series is often difficult, it was not the case here.  I was a bit surprised by the novel, however, on several counts.  While not unpleasant, it was not quite what I expected.<br />&quot; Happy Are The Peacemakers&quot; is set just before Bloomsday in Dublin.  Bloomsday, for the non-cognoscenti, is the annual celebration of James Joyce's novels.  Tim Pat McCarthy, retired Chicago cop and private investigator, has been hired to look into the murder of billionaire entrepreneur Jim Lark MacDonaugh.  More precisely he has been hired to prove that MacDonaugh's young wife Nora was guilty of his murder in order to lay her hands on his wealth.<br />Naturally, the ethical McCarthy intends to find the truth, not injure the innocent.  Especially since he has fallen under the spell of the beautiful Nora.  In the background, like a deus ex machina, is Bishop Ryan, also from Chicago, and convinced of Nora's innocence.  If Nora is innocent, then who really did blow her husband to smithereens in a locked room?  Jim Lake's brothers?  His children?  His business partners?  The IRA?  The list of suspects is nearly infinite, and the murderer seems quite willing to kill again to protect his secrets.<br />Greeley tells this story with a light, almost comic, touch.  Once can't help but smile at the antics of the MacDonaugh clan, the budding romance between Tim Pat and Nora, and the countless bit players that appear.  Greeley seems to tell most of the tale with a heavy Irish brogue.  The ins and outs of that dialect are a fascinating study all on their own<br />I have only two real issues with the novel.  One is that all of Greeley's Irishfolk curse a blue streak.  Except for Blackie Ryan, of course.  There comes a point where all the expletives become overused, and one wishes that Greeley had been a bit more circumspect.  The other issue is that Bishop Ryan makes very few lengthy appearances in this tale.  Most of the time he receives McCarthy's reports with a curt &quot;fascinating.&quot;  It is only at the end that he displays an almost Nero Wolfe-like brilliance.  I like my detectives to be a bit more prominent.  In any case this is a likeable story that will serve to provide several entertaining hours.  Those of a literary bent will find the countless allusions to James Joyce a source of much amusement.  And the romantics among us will delight in the eccentric relationship between McCarthy and Nora.One is that all of Greeley's Irishfolk curse a blue streak.  Except for Blackie Ryan, of course.  There comes a point where all the expletives become overused, and one wishes that Greeley had been a bit more circumspect.  The other issue is that Bishop Ryan makes very few lengthy appearances in this tale.  Most of the time he receives McCarthy's reports with a curt &quot;fascinating.&quot;  It is only at the end that he displays an almost Nero Wolfe-like brilliance.  I like my detectives to be a bit more prominent.  In any case this is a likeable story that will serve to provide several entertaining hours.  Those of a literary bent will find the countless allusions to James Joyce a source of much amusement.  And the romantics among us will delight in the eccentric relationship between McCarthy and Nora.	2001-07-31
1900461:US	53082946	ROJ03N2Y3XRTY	0385147791	251988592	A Book of Games: A Course in Spiritual Play	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Course in Spiritual Play	Spiritual practice, putting the principles behind our beliefs into day to day action, is not a subject that gets a lot of attention.  Throughout most of humanity's history we have focused on worship as a duty, rather than a source of wisdom and information on how best to live and change our lives.  Unlike many practitioners, who are often very private people, Hugh Prather chose the path of ministry and teaching, hoping to help others while he helped himself.<br />Unlike many of Prather's works, which are often notebooks and musings, &quot;A Book of Games&quot; is a series of practices, couched as games, that are intended to help us mine the potential for happiness in each of our lives.<br />The first game, for example, is called 'The Secret Agent.'  It has us imagine that we are agents of a foreign king.  Our assignment is to bring a sense of harmlessness and gentle caring into play between ourselves and others and let go of expectations of agreement or disagreement.  It we succeed we are to send a coded message back to the king.  The code is 'thank you.'<br />All the games are of this nature, often very simply put, but not always easy to carry out.  We are cautioned not to expect to 'win' the game every time we play.  Indeed, it is the playing, not the winning, that is important.<br />&quot;A Book of Games&quot; is completely non-denominational in character.  I am not positive that even a belief in a higher power is absolutely necessary, although it certainly would help.  This little book has been in my library for some 10 years.  I don't take it off the shelf often enough.  Each time I do I find that there is always something that appeals to me, that helps me on the way through a current situation.	2001-07-29
1901298:US	53082946	R3ALSP8XIM9YWB	0451409000	931515590	Messiah	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	For These Things Were Done...	Boris Starling's &quot;Messiah&quot; starts out deceptively slow paced as Detective Superintendent Red Metcalfe confronts the first crime scene of this novel.  A hanging - made unusual by the removal of the victim's tongue and its replacement with a silver spoon.  But he hardly has time to interview the deceased's girlfriend when he receives a second call.  This time a bishop has been beaten to death, and once again the victim's tongue has been removed and replaced with a silver spoon.  Red intuitively knows that this will be a bad case, and that he is hunting down a fiendishly clever serial killer.<br />Metcalfe, with his team of Duncan Warren, Kate Beauchamp, and Jez Clinton, find themselves faces with a killer who knows how to leave no trace at the murder scene.  The murders seem to occur at random, and the victims seem to have nothing in common.  Red, who is noted for his ability to get into the minds of criminals and killers is completely stymied.  The team seems helpless as killing follows killing, and every lead points to a dead end.<br />Starling keeps up interest by first alternating the narrative with flashback of Metcalfe's life.  In college he turned his brother in as a killer who is still serving a life sentence.  Later Metcalfe was the driver in a hit and run accident.  A secret he still hides.  The second narrative feature is the gradual inclusion of tidbits from the killer.  These are extremely well done, providing insight but never giving anything away.<br />Without ever appearing so, this is an extremely tightly plotted thriller.  There is very little that does not happen for a reason.  Clues are carefully presented and disguised without ever revealing too much.  The story twists and turns as the murders point in different directions without ever becoming banal or repetitive.  The murders themselves are ghoulishly spectacular, making this both a fascinating mystery story and a great serial killer read.  A very fine piece of writing from a promising author.author.	2001-07-28
1906371:US	53082946	R26DVYSRSPBSP3	0061097357	552359034	The Floating Girl	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Manga and Mystery	On the prowl as usual for a new mystery writer to read, I noticed that Sujata Massey's &quot;The Floating Girl&quot; was out in paperback and decided to try it.  This novel is not Massey's first in the series (The Salaryman's Wife, Zen Attitude and The Flower Master precede it) but I had no trouble starting in with the story.  The author provides just enough continuity to satisfy the reader's curiosity.<br />I've been a fan of mystery stories set in Japan for years, but most that I've read have been set in historical Japan.  Modern Japanese mystery fiction is often a bit dry for my tastes.  Rei Shimura, Massey's heroine, took me completely by surprise.  By making Rei a Japanese-American who has returned to Tokyo the author has created the perfect character.  Rei thinks like an American, but she understands Japanese culture well enough to provide invaluable insight for the reader.  I found myself much attracted by Rei's warmth courage and honesty.  She is something of a breath of fresh air in a genre which is full of dark heroes.<br />Rei is an antique deal, who is supplementing her sparse income by writing art and antique columns for the Gaijin Times, a magazine published for foreigner's in Japan.  The owner is interested in changing the magazine's format to manga (comic book) format.  To prepare the readers Rei is commissioned to write an article on the art of manga.  At something of a loss, her research uncovers an independent manga that has excellent art - Showa Story.  She is entranced by the illustrations or pre-war Japan, but when she tries to track down the circle of artists who created the manga, one of them disappears, one doesn't want to talk to her, and the other turns up murdered.<br />Naturally Rei investigates.  How can she write an article if the people she wants to talk about are killed?  Much to the chagrin of her boyfriend Takeo and Lieutenant Hata of the Tokyo Police, Rei perseveres, confronting artists, male strippers, yakuza, and an entire comic convention in her quest for the truth.  She finds her own life endangered.  Fortunately, the story is not all serious, there's plenty of time for some torrid moments with Takeo, and several funny exchanges with the other characters in the book.  &quot;The Floating Girl&quot; is not earthshaking fiction, but it is perfect for filling a slow summer day.  At any time of year.convention in her quest for the truth.  She finds her own life endangered.  Fortunately, the story is not all serious, there's plenty of time for some torrid moments with Takeo, and several funny exchanges with the other characters in the book.  &quot;The Floating Girl&quot; is not earthshaking fiction, but it is perfect for filling a slow summer day.  At any time of year.	2001-07-24
1907847:US	53082946	R1MM79KRA7OKXM	0441004520	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	One Too Many Monsters	&quot;The Killing Dance&quot; opens with Anita being asked to lend her talents as a necromancer in an effort to save an ancient master vampire from a corrupting and degenerative disease.  Anita agrees to help Sabin and his human servant, Dominic Dumare.  Upon leaving this meeting Anita attends a party with her werewolf boyfriend, Richard, and receives a surprise phone call from Edward the bounty hunter.  Someone has offered Edward a half-million dollars to remove Anita from this planet.  Anita returns to her home with Richard only to walk into an ambush.  Anita winds up with an apartment decorated in late assassin and an overly protective (?) hairy boyfriend.<br />Richard has his own problems.  He must share Anita with the sexiest vampire in St. Louis, Jean-Claude - Master of the City.  More important, his struggle for dominance with Marcus and Raina, the current pack leaders, has split the werewolves.  If Richard cannot overcome his reluctance to kill Marcus he will lose his chance, and the lives of many of his supporters will be forfeit.  Even Anita knows that he must come to terms with his beast, yet she fears that she will not be able to handle it.  And Jean-Claude?  In the beginning, his worst problem is that Anita doesn't really want him.  As the story progresses we discover that everyone else's problems are also Jean-Claude's.<br />With this novel, Laurell Hamilton establishes herself as a master of the sexy vampire romance tale.  A position previously monopolized by Anne Rice.  A steady sexual pressure drives the world of vampire and werewolf politics, and Anita finds herself and integral part of the formula.  Sensuality is not only a deep pulse underlying her relationships with Richard and Jean-Claude, it is also the key to pack dominance, and the power behind magical forces.  Sex, in monster terms,  is &quot;The Killing Dance.&quot;<br />Let the reader be warned that, as Anita works out her relationships with her competing lovers we will be treated to several steamy scenes that go far beyond the sly innuendo of Hamilton's previous novels.  Some may be offended by the rising importance of Anita's romantic entanglements as a plot element.  The author handle's this material with the same class and skill that she does the horror and suspense elements.  I do feel that the Sabin subplot would have benefited from more development, and a more balanced book resulted.  But there is only so much an author can do in a reasonable novel size.  &quot;The Killing Dance&quot; appeals to a wider audience than Hamilton's earlier novels, bringing her a well deserved success.veral steamy scenes that go far beyond the sly innuendo of Hamilton's previous novels.  Some may be offended by the rising importance of Anita's romantic entanglements as a plot element.  The author handle's this material with the same class and skill that she does the horror and suspense elements.  I do feel that the Sabin subplot would have benefited from more development, and a more balanced book resulted.  But there is only so much an author can do in a reasonable novel size.  &quot;The Killing Dance&quot; appeals to a wider audience than Hamilton's earlier novels, bringing her a well deserved success.	2001-07-23
1909310:US	53082946	R286DN5CKHFN4T	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	A Spectacular Canvas	Far from the city of New Crobuzon, on the Cymek desert, Yagharek the Garuda, commits choice theft and faces harsh tribal justice - his wings are cut from his body.  The Bird Man's quest to regain the power of flight trigger's a series of events that release a terrible evil on the citizens of the city.  Slakemoths, who can strip the spirit and thoughts from any intelligent creature, leaving a helpless husk, are freed to feed at will.  Isaac der Grimnebulin, rogue scientist, in undertaking Yagharek's task, is instrumental in first releasing the moths and then in leading the tragic struggle to free the city skies of terror.<br />New Crobuzon itself is the main character of &quot;Perdido Street Station.&quot;  Mieville describes the city as a combination of London, Cairo and Havana.  But even a shallow reading reveals far more than that.  Founded on the bones of some legendary beast, it is peopled with hundreds of different cultures, many non-human.  The Kephri, insect headed, who excrete fantastical art, the Vodyanoi water masters, and the isolationist Cactus People.  Some are actually shaped by magic and machine.  Each individual culture has its own life style and environment.  New Crobuzon is a crazy quilt mix of these peoples and their artifacts.  The sum of their contributions and more.  There are mages, thaumaturges, scientists, artists and artisans of every discipline.  Slums and fashionable neighborhoods and decayed elegances abut one another.  This is a city made in the image of Hieronymous Bosch's most fevered visions of hell.  Wherever the reader looks there are countless layers and distractions to study.<br />Desperately trying to trap the slakemoths, der Grimnebulin acts as our guide through this city.  Having first conceived of the idea of a crisis engine as a way to grant Yagharek flight, Isaac realizes that it is the only hope of undoing his mistake.  Aided by revolutionaries, remade men, immense intelligent machines, an eerie spider creature and others almost too numerous to catalog, the inventor scours the city for the knowledge and materials the he needs.  Finally, atop the Perdido Street Station, the center of the city's links to the world, Isaac weaves New Crobuzon itself into the his final weapon.  If he can win, the dreams of the city will no longer be invaded by the slakemoths and New Crobuzon can return to a semblance of sanity.<br />This is a book about transformation, the tragic nature of heroism and the pain of inexorable justice.  Each character must face the outcome of their decisions and actions.  New Crobuzon itself, its vastness sprawling beneath the heights of Perdido Street Station is the court in which each one's mettle is tested, and all too often found wanting.  The book has an eerie flavor of the Victorian Gothic about it and one finds that the most memorable characters are creatures of accident - the remade man Half-a-Prayer, the spider creature Weaver, and the housecleaning automaton that develops intelligence and leads the others to their best hope of survival.<br />If &quot;Perdido Street Station&quot; has a fault, it is that it is too rich a diet for easy reading.  On more than a few occasions I found myself putting the book aside after a chapter or two, to think over all the images and ideas that Mieville uses freely.  What surprised me is that the writing was so vivid that I found it easy to pick up where I left off, even after a day or two pause.  The book is a wonder on many levels, with enough content to populate more than a single city.  Indeed, we are promised that there is a forthcoming tale also set in the same venue.  The intrepid reader will find this book a deep well of ideas and imaginings.almost too numerous to catalog, the inventor scours the city for the knowledge and materials the he needs.  Finally, atop the Perdido Street Station, the center of the city's links to the world, Isaac weaves New Crobuzon itself into the his final weapon.  If he can win, the dreams of the city will no longer be invaded by the slakemoths and New Crobuzon can return to a semblance of sanity.<br />This is a book about transformation, the tragic nature of heroism and the pain of inexorable justice.  Each character must face the outcome of their decisions and actions.  New Crobuzon itself, its vastness sprawling beneath the heights of Perdido Street Station is the court in which each one's mettle is tested, and all too often found wanting.  The book has an eerie flavor of the Victorian Gothic about it and one finds that the most memorable characters are creatures of accident - the remade man Half-a-Prayer, the spider creature Weaver, and the housecleaning automaton that develops intelligence and leads the others to their best hope of survival.<br />If &quot;Perdido Street Station&quot; has a fault, it is that it is too rich a diet for easy reading.  On more than a few occasions I found myself putting the book aside after a chapter or two, to think over all the images and ideas that Mieville uses freely.  What surprised me is that the writing was so vivid that I found it easy to pick up where I left off, even after a day or two pause.  The book is a wonder on many levels, with enough content to populate more than a single city.  Indeed, we are promised that there is a forthcoming tale also set in the same venue.  The intrepid reader will find this book a deep well of ideas and imaginings.	2001-07-22
1912024:US	53082946	RM22CTNEG055C	1565049713	157630929	Predator & Prey Werewolf *OP (Vampire: The Masquerade Predator & Prey)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good - Up to a Point	Kaitlin, a young black woman, has fled from the pain of her ability to perceive the world of the monsters that surrounds her.  Originally from around Detroit she has moved to a small northern town.  Unsuspectingly she discovers that her neighbor, a small town bar, is a hangout for werewolves.  Thus forcing her to confront the very issues she was trying to avoid.<br />Black Rindle is the metis werewolf that Kaitlin spotted after a kill.  He is a child of a forbidden relationship between two werewolves, and bears a hunchback as the brand of his parentage.  Metis are normally killed at birth, and the other Garou in his sept see his deformity as a mark of shame.  To them, Black Rindle is a barely tolerated outcast, rejected by his father, and blamed for the illness and death of his mother.  Browbeaten since birth, Rindle has internalized everyone's opinion of himself and has become a drifter and an alcoholic.<br />Kaitlin, terrorized by the appearance of Black Rindle, manages to overcome her fear of him when she finds his broken body by the road.  Rindle had been set upon by one of his sept brothers, EveSong, and left to suffer.  Kaitlin brings Rindle to her home and helps him to recover.  A thorny and difficult relationship forms between them.  When Kaitlin lands a job as a local waste disposal site Black Rindle smells a taint lingering about her.  A sure sign of the Wyrm.  When they discover that the taint is coming from a laboratory at the hazardous waste repository Rindle realizes that he must turn his life around.  He is an Ahroun, a warrior, and is duty bound to fight any manifestation of the Wyrm.  He must arouse the sept and prepare for battle.<br />This series was originally intended to illuminate the role of the Hunters, new characters in the World of Darkness.  With this, the third in the series, I am beginning to suspect that the focus of the series is elsewhere.  While Kaitlin, the hunter of the tale, has a prominent role, it is trivial compared to that of Black Rindle.  The story says almost nothing about the hunters, although it provides a wealth of information about werewolves.  Nor is Kaitlin particularly sympathetic.  She can barely control here cowardice, and often lashes out in paranoid anger.  This is a far cry from the Hunters as described in Andrew Bates' &quot;Heralds of the Storm.&quot;<br />Gherbod Flemming, as usual, manages to make the plot work and keep the reader's interest up, despite the flawed characterizations.  Unfortunately something inexplicable happens at the end of the novel.  Actually the end never really happens.  Having set the scene for what should be a titanic struggle with the Wyrm, and a growing relationship between Black Rindle and Kaitlin, Flemming suddenly abandons the tale in midstream.  The entire tale is left hanging, apparently to make space for promotional material for a new series.  This ruins this story, makes me wonder if this series is doomed to mediocrity, and certainly does not make me interested in the new series.  I am tempted to suggest that Flemming abandon the White Wolf label and strike out on his own.  Unfortunately that would deal too severe a blow to the World of Darkness game world.  It would be unfair to punish so many gamers for the sins of their publisher.Black Rindle.  The story says almost nothing about the hunters, although it provides a wealth of information about werewolves.  Nor is Kaitlin particularly sympathetic.  She can barely control here cowardice, and often lashes out in paranoid anger.  This is a far cry from the Hunters as described in Andrew Bates' &quot;Heralds of the Storm.&quot;  <br />Gherbod Flemming, as usual, manages to make the plot work and keep the reader's interest up, despite the flawed characterizations.  Unfortunately something inexplicable happens at the end of the novel.  Actually the end never really happens.  Having set the scene for what should be a titanic struggle with the Wyrm, and a growing relationship between Black Rindle and Kaitlin, Flemming suddenly abandons the tale in midstream.  The entire tale is left hanging, apparently to make space for promotional material for a new series.  This ruins this story, makes me wonder if this series is doomed to mediocrity, and certainly does not make me interested in the new series.  I am tempted to suggest that Flemming abandon the White Wolf label and strike out on his own.  Unfortunately that would deal too severe a blow to the World of Darkness game world.  It would be unfair to punish so many gamers for the sins of their publisher.	2001-07-20
1912095:US	53082946	R29927OTU280PS	1565928695	474216311	Enterprise JavaBeans (Java Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Well Thought Out	Earlier this year I realized that my woefully primitive knowledge of the Java architecture needed some updating.  The Enterprise JavaBean (EJB) architecture was being considered for use in several systems, and I found the standard presentations were not helping me bridge the knowledge gap.  In my quest for a useful resource, I came upon this excellent introduction and reference by Richard Monson-Haefel.  The author is a recognized authority with considerable experience as a Java Architect, as well as founder of the Wisconsin Java User Group.<br />The first three chapters focus on defining the problem set that EJB is intended to solve and the architecture of the solution.  Chapter 1 sets the stage, covering the definition of EJB's, distributed object architectures, component models, transaction monitors, and server-side component models.  In Chapter 2 we are provided an architectural overview of the nature of the enterprise bean component, the use of enterprise beans and the bean-container contract.  Chapter 3 completes the 'theoretical' discussion with coverage of resource management and primary services (concurrency, transactions, persistence, distributed objects, naming, and security.<br />Chapters 4 through 8 provide deeper coverage of the topics touched on in the first three chapters, with a rich and illuminating set of examples.  I found these examples as clear as they could possibly be for one with my moderate technical skills.  The author makes a continuous effort to keep from getting too far above the head of the reader.  He is careful to present alternatives and explain the reasons for design decisions.  Chapter 9 is an excellent, if short, dive into some interesting, and often ignored, topics (passing objects by value, improved performance with session beans, bean adapters, implementing a common interface, entity bean relationships, and object-to-relational mapping tools).<br />Two appendixes cover the EJB API and State and Sequence diagrams for the bean types in the book.<br />&quot;Enterprise JavaBeans&quot; covers a huge amount of material, and does so in a clear and organized fashion.  For most people it could easily be the only reference the need. Monson-Haeful's style is a bit phlegmatic, which means that he does not grab your attention and fascinate.  Instead he moves steadily down his path.  Thus the reading can sometimes become tedious, especially in the theoretical sections.  This, unfortunately, is the price usually paid for such deep dives into technology rich subject areas.ypes in the book.<br />&quot;Enterprise JavaBeans&quot; covers a huge amount of material, and does so in a clear and organized fashion.  For most people it could easily be the only reference the need. Monson-Haeful's style is a bit phlegmatic, which means that he does not grab your attention and fascinate.  Instead he moves steadily down his path.  Thus the reading can sometimes become tedious, especially in the theoretical sections.  This, unfortunately, is the price usually paid for such deep dives into technology rich subject areas.	2001-07-20
1912481:US	53082946	R311LISL5QBY6K	0425180700	579981576	The Oxford Essential Dictionary of Difficult Words	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Instant Illumination of Verbal Perplexities	What a relief it is to know that one does not have to carry around the Oxford English Dictionary to keep one's head above water with the English language.  I am often at a loss for the correct spelling or usage of a word that I think is the right one.  Common business dictionaries often fail to provide the material for creative writing, and usually fail to provide useful examples.  And, of course, it helps to have something handy when someone else decides to show off their language skills.<br />This little gem, &quot;The  Oxford Dictionary of Difficult Words&quot;  is intended to fill this particular gap.  Only 1-1/2&quot; thick, the paperback is just the size for slipping into a briefcase or portfolio.  It provides all the basics; pronunciation, parts of speech, and concise definitions, and sample sentences.  It covers both technical as well as English usage.  So if you are occasionally non-plussed by the appearance of elucubrate or exactly how to use sardonic, this is the handy reference for you.	2001-07-19
1912486:US	53082946	R2IQ6PK66KWCY9	0425179559	953931509	Hugger Mugger (Spenser)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Horse of Another Color	&quot;Hugger Mugger,&quot; the 27th in the venerable Spenser series offers a bit of a change of pace from other recent Spenser tales.  The wise cracking detective plays most of this novel solo.  Susan makes several guest experiences, but Hawk is off with a lady friend in the wilds of Europe and plays no part.  Most of the story takes place in Lamarr, Georgia, in and around the Three Fillies Stables, home of a horse racing dynasty, the Clives, and Hugger Mugger, the horse who is expected to be the next Triple Crown champion.<br />Walter Clive, the head of the family, hires Spenser to investigate several horse shootings at his Georgia stables, the last of which was an attempt on Hugger Mugger.  Spenser discovers that his clients, Walter, Walter's daughter Penny, who manages the stables, his other daughters (Suesue and Stonie), as well as their husbands are wealthy as can be, and three times as dysfunctional.  Spenser gets his choice of alcoholics, sexual peccadilloes, myriad weird compulsive behaviors, and a psychotic security chief as he sorts through a mystery which makes little or no sense.<br />Suddenly the story turns serious when Walter Clive is murdered.  Penny, the daughter in charge promptly fires Spenser and sends him home.  But nothing keeps a good P.I. down for long.  Dolly, Walter's not quite wife, rehires Spencer to investigate further.  She believes that her son, whom DNA testing has proved to be Walter's, is being cheated of his inheritance.  Spenser, helped by Deputy Sheriff Becker and a bouncer at the local bar (both of whom are no slouches at wisecracking), begin the work of finding the mind behind the murder.<br />In truth, &quot;Hugger Mugger&quot; is a bit light on plot, and the mystery is more about Spenser figuring out 'how' not discovering 'who.'  Everybody in the book wisecracks, except for the poor psychopathic security chief.  This is funny, but wears thin in high doses.  For some reason, feeling it necessary to include Susan, Parker seems compelled to make most of her and Spenser's moments overtly sexual, which overbalances their relationship, and make it ring a bit false.<br />While this is not the perfect Spenser story, the reader needs to keep in mind that even a bad novel by Robert Parker is going to be an enjoyable read.  And this is by no means a bad novel.  The Clive husbands and the bar bouncer are very fine characterizations.  In addition, Parker shows himself capable of taking on some controversial themes.  This is well worth the reading, and is one of the later Spenser novels that can stand alone, making it a good starter for those interested in the series.compelled to make most of her and Spenser's moments overtly sexual, which overbalances their relationship, and make it ring a bit false.<br />While this is not the perfect Spenser story, the reader needs to keep in mind that even a bad novel by Robert Parker is going to be an enjoyable read.  And this is by no means a bad novel.  The Clive husbands and the bar bouncer are very fine characterizations.  In addition, Parker shows himself capable of taking on some controversial themes.  This is well worth the reading, and is one of the later Spenser novels that can stand alone, making it a good starter for those interested in the series.	2001-07-19
1917778:US	53082946	R1R6S9634MR4UC	0060199563	461879486	Thief of Time	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	Rule 19: Never forget Rule 1	Rule 1: Do not act incautiously when confronting a little bald wrinkly smiling man.&lt;.<br />Jeremy, a young clockmaker who has always managed to stay just this side of insanity (except for once) finds that he has been enlisted to build a clock that measures time perfectly.  He and his assistant Igor attack the problem with zest, never realizing that this perfect clock will stop time forever.  It is a plot by the Auditors to rid themselves of human beings.<br />In a monastery far, far away, where the Monks of History live, young Lobsang, finds he has been apprenticed to the fearsome Lu-Tse, chief janitor, and master of the Way of Mrs. Cosmopilite.  Lobsang is assign to Lu-Tse because he seems to be able to steal at the speed of light and always knows the answers to the wrong question.  This remarkable pair soon discover that time is being meddled with.  They set off to Ankh-Morpork (where everything happens) to put a stop to the putting a stop to time.<br />Finally, young Miss Susan, instructor at the Frout Academy, and direct descendant of DEATH himself, receives an assignment from her grandfather.  You guessed, if time stops, DEATH is out of business.  Riding Binky the pale horse, accompanied by Quoth the raven and the Death of Rats (SQUEAK), she too heads for Ankh-Morpork to avert THE END.<br />Suffice it to say, there is no way to adequately describe the plot of a novel that combines Taoism, a genuine apocalypse, and the fine art of chocolate making between two covers. Pratchett skates from profundity to sarcasm with the kind of facility that comes from writing 26 Discworld novels. Satirizing both the universe's self appointed counters of beans and monastic cults without being offensive to either is another sign of Pratchett's mastery. His plotting is tighter than ever, and he has succeeded in taking some of his oldest shticks and making them seem fresh and new. Even Nanny Ogg makes an appearance.<br />I am tempted to call this his best yet. I only hesitate because he has written so many that I can no longer remember all of them. But I will never forget the twisted wisdom of Mrs. Cosmopilite, or the strange uses Lu-Tse puts it to. It is simple impossible to go wrong with &quot;Thief of Time.&quot; As with most of Pratchett's Discworld series it stands on it's own quite well. If you are a fan of dry wit and a bit of slapstick you will be unable to put it down.ause he has written so many that I can no longer remember all of them. But I will never forget the twisted wisdom of Mrs. Cosmopilite, or the strange uses Lu-Tse puts it to. It is simple impossible to go wrong with &quot;Thief of Time.&quot; As with most of Pratchett's Discworld series it stands on it's own quite well. If you are a fan of dry wit and a bit of slapstick you will be unable to put it down.	2001-07-16
1918071:US	53082946	RNSKXEQSZIFIB	0595093272	144194157	Doctor Janeway's Plague	Books	5	4	5	N	N	...That there shall be a day of Doom	Set in Cambridge, Massachusetts, whose academic atmosphere is an integral part of this unusual tale, &quot;Doctor Janeway's Plague&quot; is the story of one man's immortality and it's terrible price.  The Reverend Doctor Robert H. Janeway, a guest lecturer at Harvard's Divinity School appears to have a more colorful past than his resume would indicate.  In fact, he appears to be the very same Janeway who, four hundred years earlier, triggered a massive plague among the Patuxet Indians.  When confronted about this by Miriam Tailor, a 'cousin,' Janeway is frank, his life has been much prolonged, and he is very tired of living it.  Janeway is prepared to do whatever is necessary to escape an existence which has led him repeatedly to the brink of insanity and beyond.<br />As several other Cambridge residents, Glen DiStasio, Leon Bradley, Ethan Silver, and their closest friends are soon to find out, Dr. Janeway will brook no obstacles.  He is capable of taking over, and then destroying the life of anyone foolish or brave enough to become an obstacle to his mania for release.  His methods are gruesome, seeming to be a combination of the supernatural and modern science.  Indeed, Farrell does a fine job of masking the root sources of Janeway's power behind several layers of misdirection, leaving the reader unsure until the last whether he is dealing with monster or miracle.<br />The story ranges from Cambridge to the forests of New England, with several stops in between.  The plot itself mixes astronomy, computers, theology, and history in sufficient doses to keep the interests of any reader.  Farrell exhibits fine control of his plot, slowly but steadily increasing the intensity without ever rushing the reader.  This is a puzzle story, intriguing and fascinating rather than hyperkinetic and gory.  A very satisfying read.<br />The chiefest flaw in &quot;Doctor Janeway's Plague&quot; is simply that it is too short.  While a great deal can be said for the effectiveness of its minimalist styling, I think the novel would have been even better with a bit more character development and atmospheric narrative.  I'm quibbling, understand.  And, in an era where authors often go on forever with little or nothing to say, John Farrell's sparse tension building is like a breath of fresh air.minimalist styling, I think the novel would have been even better with a bit more character development and atmospheric narrative.  I'm quibbling, understand.  And, in an era where authors often go on forever with little or nothing to say, John Farrell's sparse tension building is like a breath of fresh air.	2001-07-15
1919302:US	53082946	R3FN4QLKRBP9GS	0441003745	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Grim Fairy Tale	Bert, the owner of Animators Inc., and Anita Blake's nominal boss, is too greedy to refuse a fat fee.  This time his compulsive avarice has got Anita in over her head.  Her new client needs her to raise an entire graveyard of bones, many of which are over 300 years old.  In addition, the client seems to have run a bulldozer through the remains - several times.  Anita may be the only animator who is capable of accomplishing this, but even she is less than confident.<br />No sooner is she at the gravesite when Anita is called in to help investigate some gruesome killings.  Deaths which appear to have been done by the first serial killer vampire on record, one who specializes in the young.  In her efforts to prevent further deaths Anita manages to alienate both the local police and the FBI.  She also discovers that the small country town of Branson is sheltering several people with fairy heritage, and that they are not happy about her efforts at raising the graveyard.<br />Realizing that she needs more help than Larry the apprentice animator, Anita decides to call in vampire Jean Claude.  Unfortunately, Branson has it's own master vampire, Seraphina, who is much stronger than Jean Claude and will stop at nothing to take over the control of his own territory, St. Louis.  In the process of trying to get information from Seraphina about the rogue vampire, Jean Claude and Anita are forced into an all out war with Seraphina and her powerful cohorts.<br />The suspense goes from intense to extreme as Anita has one confrontation after another with her clients, the Fae, master vampires, and creatures from legend.  She, Jean Claude, Larry, and Jason the werewolf are badly overmatched in a struggle where no one can be trusted and nothing is what it seems to be.  Laurell Hamilton has put together a truly gothic roller-coaster ride.<br />I am particularly fond of &quot;Bloody Bones.&quot;  Rather than perpetually introducing new cast members, Hamilton takes the time to dive deeper into characters the reader already knows from earlier volumes in the series.  Even Bert gets a good bit of attention.  This makes the characters come alive, and sets the stage for subsequent volumes where Anita has to deal directly with her problematic relationships with Jean Claude and alpha werewolf Richard Zeeman.  If you are a Blake fan this is required reading.  If you are new to the series I would suggest starting with an earlier volume in the series, although this volume still stands on its owninto characters the reader already knows from earlier volumes in the series.  Even Bert gets a good bit of attention.  This makes the characters come alive, and sets the stage for subsequent volumes where Anita has to deal directly with her problematic relationships with Jean Claude and alpha werewolf Richard Zeeman.  If you are a Blake fan this is required reading.  If you are new to the series I would suggest starting with an earlier volume in the series, although this volume still stands on its own	2001-07-14
1922881:US	53082946	R3GR3L29V1WBHB	0595099262	512248478	The Charters Affair: Being a Reminiscence of Dr. John H. Watson	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Holmes as Archeologist	Worn out from a recent excess of cases, Holmes and Watson are taking it easy when a telegram reaches them from Inspector MacDonald, a man Holmes greatly respects.  It seems that Professor Josiah Addleton, an eminent historian, had been killed under grotesque circumstances at the village of Little Stoke in the Vale of the Bittern.<br />Rushing off to the village, Holmes and Watson discover that Addleton had been excavating a barrow near the village.  In addition to the prehistoric contents of the barrow, the Professor was also on a quest to discover treasure stolen four centuries before from a local monastery.  In addition there are two  equally ancient royal charters.  These charters were needed to resolve a long standing argument over land holdings between two prominent local families - The Grey's and the Forrester's.  Something the Professor knew triggered his murder, but what is a mystery.<br />Watson investigates the village, talking to the people and accumulating lore about local legends and myths.  Children's rhymes and old men's tales.  Little Stoke was the site of a colorful 16th century history, from smugglers to knights, as well as a rich prehistory full of barrows and cairns.  Holmes, on the other hand, focuses on the chief players.  Rowland Forrester, and William and Mary Grey are the opponents in the argument over land rights.  Professor Frey and Portland Donner, were Addleton's partners at the dig.  There are many others whose roles are less clear, but whose part in the mystery is undoubted.  Holmes and Watson uncover layer after layer of mystery and deception as they seek the murderer, the missing treasure and documents.<br />The tale itself is mystifying and entertaining.  I found myself immersed in each of the several stories that unravel under Holmes' piecing eye.  There is something here for everyone, from horseracing to archeology, and the pictures of rural England make it a 19th century travelogue as well.  Only a few qualms have kept me from giving the novel a 5 star rating.<br />The first is the writing style.  Since none of Doyle's stories really classify as full blown novels, writers who venture into this territory must create a believable Watsonian style for themselves.  In James Stefanie's case he had adopted some of the approaches that Doyle uses elsewhere, and backfilled with his own invention.  Unfortunately, while the writing is good, it does not always ring true to Watson, showing much more attention to local color and far more philosophical brooding than Doyle's Watson ever demonstrated.ving the novel a 5 star rating.<br />The first is the writing style.  Since none of Doyle's stories really classify as full blown novels, writers who venture into this territory must create a believable Watsonian style for themselves.  In James Stefanie's case he had adopted some of the approaches that Doyle uses elsewhere, and backfilled with his own invention.  Unfortunately, while the writing is good, it does not always ring true to Watson, showing much more attention to local color and far more philosophical brooding than Doyle's Watson ever demonstrated.	2001-07-12
1923280:US	53082946	R3B60U10W5UXD5	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Just When You Think Youve Heard It All	I'm a jaded vampire addict.  I read Elrod, lurk in the Masquerade, slaughter with Anita Blake, and kick butt with Buffy.  Even so, I was hardly prepared for the advent of Sookie Stackhouse, a cocktail waitress at Merlotte's Bar in Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Snookie is smart, cute, a perfect country girl, and totally dateless.  Why?  Well, she has a slight disability - she can read minds.<br />One night at Merlotte's the small town doldrums are broken when a stranger rolls in.  Not just any stranger, but a real vampire!  Up from New Orleans and planning to settle down.  Now that artificial blood has been invented, being a vampire has become legal.  In the past few years many have decided to enter mainstream society.  But the best part of all, Sookie discovers, is that she cannot read the stranger's mind.<br />When two of the town's more nefarious characters try to waylay Sookie's customer and drain his blood; she comes to the rescue.  In short order, Sookie and Bill the vampire (that's right - Bill) become a couple.  Sookie helps Bill get his house repaired, introduces Bill to her Gran, and roots for him when he speaks to the Descendants of the Glorious Dead (a Civil War study group).<br />All is not perfect though.  Bon Temps is shaken by a series of horrific stranglings and the prime suspect is Sookie's brother.  Bill is plagued by vampires from his past life (death?) as a bad New Orleans vampire.  Not all of his past friends want him to go straight.  And even Sookie's eternal optimism finds that dating a vampire can be a bit of a challenge.  Sookie and Bill realize that the only way to return Bon Temps to peace and get on with a normal (?) life is to solve the crimes.<br />It is impossible not to love Sookie, and enjoy many of the other quirky inhabitants of her small Southern town.  Bill is not menacing in the traditional sense, and is a perfect gentleman most of the time.  But writer Charlaine Harris never lets us quite forget that he is an efficient killer and a cold and deadly opponent.  The novel is a pleasure to read and is full of surprises.  Hopefully this will be the first in a new series of vampire tales in a Lousiana totally unlike that of Anne Rice.  Prepare yourself, the South rises again!cold and deadly opponent.  The novel is a pleasure to read and is full of surprises.  Hopefully this will be the first in a new series of vampire tales in a Lousiana totally unlike that of Anne Rice.  Prepare yourself, the South rises again!	2001-07-11
1927193:US	53082946	R3SDX2QQT2SD98	0743418948	832147971	Door to Alternity (Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel Series) (Bk. 2)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	In One Dimension and Out the Other	When I reviewed the first volume of this series, \\"The Burning,\\" I remarked the Nancy Holder and Jeff Mariotte had introduced enough plot complexity to last for several more volumes.  After all, we had monsters striking from the shadows, street gangs, bad magic, refinery fires, wannabe vampires, and corrupt cops to work with.  \\"Door to Alternity,\\" rather than starting to resolve all this activity, introduces even more.<br />In Los Angeles it becomes clear that more and more teenagers and children of wealthy families are vanishing without a trace.  Vanishing right in front of their friends.  To add to the turf wars of the Hispanic gangs, the Russian Mafiya enters into the fray intent on claiming the streets for their own.  Willow and Dona Pilar struggle to provide magical support for Buffy and Angel and track down Nicky and Salma Salidad as well.  Gunn enters that fray as well, trying to keep the street people he protects from being destroyed in the gang war that is shaking Los Angeles.<br />Sunnydale fares no better.  Giles finds that sightings of monsters has increased into the hundreds.  Portals open and demons and other creatures come pouring out.  It takes takes everything the remaining members of the home team (Giles, Tara, Spike, Xander and Anya) have to keep from being overwhelmed.  Giles is forced to recall Buffy and Riley back to Sunnydale to help stop the onslaught.<br />Believe me, this is just the beginning.  The plot will take several surprising turns before the gang can begin to understand the complex threat they are faced with.  If Buffy and Angel cannot act together, events will continue to spin more and more out of control.  Riley introduces complitations and challenges galore for Buffy, as she must come to understand her own feelings for both the men in her life.  Tara also begins to play a more significant part as Willow's cohort and magical aid.<br />The authors, unused to dealing with the more mature characters of this trilogy still have some struggles with personalities.  Buffy's quips are funny, but slightly immature.  Riley's conversation is still mostly glorious hunk instead of wise warrior.  Tara's personality is much as it is acted in the show, which I have always felt was a bit too week.  But all these flaws are understandable, and Holder and Mariotte's characterizations are much less stilted than those in \\"The Burning.\\"  Without a doubt \\"Door to Alternity\\" is a worthy sequel.  A classic one sitting read.  I'm looking forward to the final installment.uggles with personalities.  Buffy's quips are funny, but slightly immature.  Riley's conversation is still mostly glorious hunk instead of wise warrior.  Tara's personality is much as it is acted in the show, which I have always felt was a bit too week.  But all these flaws are understandable, and Holder and Mariotte's characterizations are much less stilted than those in \\"The Burning.\\"  Without a doubt \\"Door to Alternity\\" is a worthy sequel.  A classic one sitting read.  I'm looking forward to the final installment.	2001-07-09
1929028:US	53082946	R276TJ9EP0BHHX	0304353671	540186833	Le Morte D'Arthur: Complete Unabridged, New Illustrated Edition	Books	5	140	158	N	Y	Outstanding New Edition of Malory's Work	\\"Le Morte D'Arthur\\" comes at a turning point in English literature.  It is both a summation of the courtly legend and lore of the Medieval world and indicator of literary times to come.  Not quite a novel, not quite a collection of tales, not quite an exemplar of etiquette and ethics, it was still one of the great creative accomplishments of the 15th century.  Countless generations of writers, poets and artists and felt its influence.<br />Unfortunately, my memories of Malory's work are tainted by my memories of the difficulties of reading the book.  In college I was sentenced to reading small paperback editions with tiny, cramped print.  It was never possible to settle into the task for more than a short time without feeling a headache coming on.  As a result my impression of the book was that it was both interesting and impenetrable.  It was with great relief that I went on to other classes and texts.<br />Lately, I found I needed a copy of `Le Morte D'Arthur\\" again, and in reviewing the available editions discovered this new edition, edited by John Matthews and illustrated by Anna-Marie Ferguson.  When it arrived, I was amazed and delighted.<br />Academically the edition is much as one would expect.  It is basically a reprint of a Medici Society version of the Caxton original.  Matthews has corrected some spelling problems.  He has also silently interpolated some snippets of the manuscript version (some 20 total) where these make the narrative clearer.  It is unfortunate that he did not document these additions to prevent scholastic confusion, but he did not wish to break up the narrative with footnotes.  I have found several of the changes and they all make the sense better.  There is a forward by fantasy writer Michael Moorcock, a very informative and readable introduction by Matthews, and a short piece on the illustrations by Anna-Marie Ferguson.<br />It is the physical presentation of this edition that makes it extraordinary.  The book is quite thick, very well bound with a heavily coated slip cover.  The paper is well made and heavy enough to prevent the print through that can hinder readability in books with dense printing.  The type font is glorious.  Large and simple enough to be easily readable.  This makes it possible to easily pick out the sense and structure without having to squint at every word.  I found the text more readable than some of the efforts at modernization I have encountered.<br />Finally, the illustrations.  These are plentiful, 62 in all, half of them in color.  Ferguson has a fine detailed style with both watercolor brush and pen.  They have pleasant dreamlike quality that arises from her masterly use of light.  These are not mere illustrations, rather, the artist has made them invitations to consider the world of King Arthur.  In summary, this is a welcome new addition to the Malory canon, and one well worth owning.ll bound with a heavily coated slip cover.  The paper is well made and heavy enough to prevent the print through that can hinder readability in books with dense printing.  The type font is glorious.  Large and simple enough to be easily readable.  This makes it possible to easily pick out the sense and structure without having to squint at every word.  I found the text more readable than some of the efforts at modernization I have encountered.<br />Finally, the illustrations.  These are plentiful, 62 in all, half of them in color.  Ferguson has a fine detailed style with both watercolor brush and pen.  They have pleasant dreamlike quality that arises from her masterly use of light.  These are not mere illustrations, rather, the artist has made them invitations to consider the world of King Arthur.  In summary, this is a welcome new addition to the Malory canon, and one well worth owning.	2001-07-07
1934644:US	53082946	R3M4T1V2ILG1SZ	0312268726	601888974	Black Lotus (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Another Fine Piece of Historical Fiction	Sano Ichiro, the Shogun's Most Honorable Investigator of Events, Situations and People, is a remarkable man.  Starting as the son of a ronin (a masterless samurai), Sano has risen to his title by dint of hard work, sharp thinking, and unmatched integrity.  He and his bright, beautiful wife Reiko have had to pit their wits against criminals and the incredible political machinations of the Shogun's court and the Bakufu, the Japanese bureaucracy.  Finally, they have had a short period of peace, time to settle in their roles and have a young son, Masahiro.<br />Unexpectedly, a fire and triple murder at a local Buddhist temple nearly brings this idyllic setting crashing down.  Sano has difficulty questioning Haru, a young nurse who was found unconscious at the scene and enlists Reiko in helping to extract Haru's story and determine if she is a suspect or a witness.  Haru awakens Reiko's protective instincts and Sano finds his own opinion is in conflict with his wife's.  Unlike the typical samurai wife of 17th Century Japan, Reiko is strong-willed and an independent thinker.  In short order they are pursuing separate investigations and working at cross purposes.<br />Reiko suspects that the Black Lotus Buddhist sect has deliberately tried to blame Haru for the murders.  The nurse and Pious Truth, a young monk, convince her that there are many suspicious activities at the temple.  Reiko focuses her investigations on High Priest Anraku, and his two lieutenants, Kumashiro and Abbess Junketsu-in.  Sano, on the other hand finds mounting evidence of Haru's dishonesty and complicity.  Worse, there is increasing pressure from the Shogun and his council to arrest Haru and bring the case to a swift conclusion before the temple's influential members can cause trouble.<br />Reiko, unable to accept her husband's judgement, actively works against him, removing Haru from the Temple and involving both her father and the Shogun's mother.  Before Sano realizes it, Reiko has triggered a series of events that that could easily destroy his career and cause the Shogun to demand his life.  The conflict between Reiko and her husband appears unresolvable, and the marriage is on the road to dissolution.  Even worse, innocent friends have become involved as well.  Unable to completely ingnore Reiko's beliefs, Sano realizes that, whether Haru is innocent or not, the Black Lotus temple is involved in many suspicious activities.  The action reaches crisis and it takes all of his energy to protect his family and the city of Edo from the plots of Anraku and his monks.<br />Of all the 'historical' mystery writers, Laura Joh Rowland stands out in her ability to completely capture the society and culture of 17th Century Japan.  Her writing seems effortless, and the reader quickly becomes deeply involved in the politics, art, and people of those times.  Sano and Reiko are delightful people, surrounded by many intriguing characters.  Indeed, Rowland has extended her characterization skills to produce a rich and compelling mystery story that is also a gemlike picture of Japanese life.ies of events that that could easily destroy his career and cause the Shogun to demand his life.  The conflict between Reiko and her husband appears unresolvable, and the marriage is on the road to dissolution.  Even worse, innocent friends have become involved as well.  Unable to completely ingnore Reiko's beliefs, Sano realizes that, whether Haru is innocent or not, the Black Lotus temple is involved in many suspicious activities.  The action reaches crisis and it takes all of his energy to protect his family and the city of Edo from the plots of Anraku and his monks.<br />Of all the 'historical' mystery writers, Laura Joh Rowland stands out in her ability to completely capture the society and culture of 17th Century Japan.  Her writing seems effortless, and the reader quickly becomes deeply involved in the politics, art, and people of those times.  Sano and Reiko are delightful people, surrounded by many intriguing characters.  Indeed, Rowland has extended her characterization skills to produce a rich and compelling mystery story that is also a gemlike picture of Japanese life.	2001-07-03
1937277:US	53082946	R20QLCLEG8AVRY	0786013788	133361536	In The Blood (Pinnacle horror)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Family That Bleeds Together...	Tainted somehow even before the civil war, the Tracker family has always been haunted by a corrupting influence.  None have ever been able to escape the town of Soldier's Crossing or to free themselves from the uneasy influence of Sweet Gum, their old homestead.  When the Trackers decide to pull down Sweet Gum, something terrible happens, a nameless evil is released to follow the Tracker bloodline.<br />Unexpectedly Jacob Tracker witnesses his nephew Josh stick a gas pump nozzle in his mouth and burn himself to death.  Jacob quickly realises that something is deeply wrong.  &quot;I'll save myself,&quot; Josh had said, &quot;You save the others.&quot;  Then he had breathed fire like a dragon in the sky.<br />Jacob, and his buddy Bo rush out to find out what had driven Josh to death and discover that every Tracker who was working at Sweet Gum has been infected with something that turns them into monsters, vampires who can only drink the blood of their kin.  No matter how quickly Bo and Jacob work to end this horror the corruption spreads even faster, quickly turning Soldier's Crossing into a graveyard.  It seems the Trackers are doomed, headed to inevitable tragedy.<br />Jacob cares deeply for his niece Brianna and her beautiful child Emily.  He cares so much that he knows he really loves Brianna - a forbidden love that he dare not act upon.  But the turning of the Trackers brings them closer together, as Josh struggles to keep Brianna and Emily safe from their own blood kin.  But Emily is the missing piece that the vampires must have to come into their full powers.  In Soldier's Crossing a great confrontation is building.<br />Gresham has written a classic, slick tale of Southern horror.  One can almost smell the mildew and rot of the worn out, tired town, and its desperate residents.  While the cast is large, Gresham provides sufficient detail to make each come alive and the main characters are well developed.  The book is plagues by a bit of repetitiveness as Tracker after Tracker is vampirized, but Gresham manages to hold the reader's attention.  &quot;In The Blood&quot; is not masterpiece, but a solid, journeyman-like effort that reads well and will provide hours of entertainment.cker after Tracker is vampirized, but Gresham manages to hold the reader's attention.  &quot;In The Blood&quot; is not masterpiece, but a solid, journeyman-like effort that reads well and will provide hours of entertainment.	2001-07-01
1938490:US	53082946	R3C0T0J4KSWRCS	0441001971	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	In Full Stride	Having led off with \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" and \\"The Laughing Corpse,\\" Laurell Hamilton has laid all the necessary groundwork to make this series work.  In \\"Circus of the Damned\\" she builds on the previous to volumes give a fuller, and more frightening picture of an alternate earth where vampires, werewolves and other monsters are commonplace members of modern society.<br />While helping the St. Louis Police investigate a pair of human murders carried out by an unknown vampire pack Anita Blake realizes that there is a new master vampire in the city.  One that is intent on terrorizing the populace and challenging Jean-Claude as Master of the City.  In a series of startling confrontations she finds out there are not one, but two such vampires.  The first, Alejandro, was young when the Aztecs were spilling the blood of sacrifices.  The other, Mr. Oliver, has roots that extend into time immemorial.  Either vampire is powerful enough to challenge Jean-Claude, and neither has any intention of observing the uneasy truce between humans and the undead.<br />In addition, Anita must deal with a Lamia, weresnakes, out-of-control zombies, and a whole host of vampires that are envious or opposed to her relationship with Jean-Claude.  And Jean-Claude himself keeps pressuring her to take the third and fourth marks of the vampire, becoming his human servant.  If dealing with all the really bad guys isn't hard enough, Anita has to deal with a new romantic interest, Richard Zeeman and an overly enthusiastic apprentice animator,  Lawrence Kirkland.  Did I mention Edward the assassin and a very large number of werewolves?<br />When the conflict between the three masters come to a head, Anita finds that she has become one of the focuses for the battle to come.  Not only Jean-Claude, but Alejandro as well, are intent on having her as human servant.  Alejandro, however, has no intention of being polite, and is capable of forcing the role on Anita - the vampiric equivalent of rape.  The story moves fluidly from scene to scene, building steadily to the inevitable and spectacular final showdown which has enough surprises to satiate even the most finicky reader.<br />Hamilton has proven herself willing and able to handle complex plots and still keep her characters from becoming two dimensional.  \\"Circus of the Damned\\" is no exception.  All of the characters, from the illustrious Jean-Claude to the lowliest human servant come brilliantly to life.  The effect is hypnotic, and I find Anita Blake stories too easy to read in one or two sessions, leaving me looking forward to her next book.  With this, the third in the Anita Blake series, Laurell Hamilton fully demonstrates the strong writing skills that have made the vampie hunter a best-selling series.ves fluidly from scene to scene, building steadily to the inevitable and spectacular final showdown which has enough surprises to satiate even the most finicky reader.<br />Hamilton has proven herself willing and able to handle complex plots and still keep her characters from becoming two dimensional.  \\"Circus of the Damned\\" is no exception.  All of the characters, from the illustrious Jean-Claude to the lowliest human servant come brilliantly to life.  The effect is hypnotic, and I find Anita Blake stories too easy to read in one or two sessions, leaving me looking forward to her next book.  With this, the third in the Anita Blake series, Laurell Hamilton fully demonstrates the strong writing skills that have made the vampie hunter a best-selling series.	2001-06-30
1938740:US	53082946	R2C1SFFFFHHOXO	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	5	10	12	N	N	For Sale: One Slight Worn Out, But Still Usable Divinity	Imagine, if you will, that you are a big time god, with millions of worshippers, big temples, and all the trappings.  That you can incarnate as an impressive ram or a magnificent white swan and that you have all the standard godlike powers.  Then, one day, you close your eyes for just a seconds and, suddenly, you found it's years later and you are a small turtle being carried 200 feet in the air by a hungry eagle.  An eagle who fully intends to drop you in order to crack your shell.  Fortunately the eagle miscalculates and instead of dead, you wind up face down in a compost heap.  Such was the fate of The Great God Om.<br />Or, imagine that you are a temple novice.  Not a particularly bright novice, but well behaved.  You have a fantastic memory, but are a little short on what it takes to understand how the squiggly markings on the scroll can be words and ideas.  You're nice, even tempered, and have a bit of a weight problem.  While you will probably be a novice forever, you like novicey tasks like turning the compost heap and tending the garden.  Or you did until a crazy, one-eyed turtle walked out of the grass and said, `Hey, you!'  Such was the fate of Brutha.<br />So begins Terry Pratchett's marvelously witty attack on organized religion, spiritual snobbery, philosophers, and bad people in general.  For, with all those people worshipping Om, only one person really believed in him.  You guessed it, Brutha the novice.  You see, gods need people who believe in them, or they kind of dry up and disappear into the desert with all the other small gods.  Om sees the handwriting on the wall.  In order to stay in business he will heed to enlist Brutha, push him into action, and completely rework Omnianism.  No simple task for a god whose current lightning bolt will barely singe an eyebrow.<br />To make matters worse, our hapless duo must deal with Deacon Vorbis, head of the Omnian Quisition.  All of the Omnian Church's inquisitors take their orders from Vorbis, who was more or less the opposite of Brutha.  He is very smart, quite thin, and not very nice at all.  The kind of person who turns turtles upside down in the sun to see how long it takes them to die.  Vorbis is a strict follower of the Omnian church and intends to be its next prophet.  He is not about to let a holy turtle and a chubby novice get in the way.  Instead he intends to use Brutha's eidetic memory to aid in the invasion of the city Ephebe, which is full of philosophers, gods, and is not very cooperative at all.<br />In Pratchett's hand the struggles of Om and Brutha are the basic material for a funny and insightful look at the difference between worship and belief.  Pratchett has little toleration for dogma, unquestioning belief, or the abuse of religious power.  But he is never unkind, simply honest, and it is clear that he writes from a strong ethical sense.  He is to be admired for undertaking what is usually a difficult subject and bringing his points home with considerable consideration and love.  If you're looking for a diatribe you won't find it here.  If what you want is a bit of insight and a lot of snorts and chuckles, \\"Small Gods\\" is just the book for you.re or less the opposite of Brutha.  He is very smart, quite thin, and not very nice at all.  The kind of person who turns turtles upside down in the sun to see how long it takes them to die.  Vorbis is a strict follower of the Omnian church and intends to be its next prophet.  He is not about to let a holy turtle and a chubby novice get in the way.  Instead he intends to use Brutha's eidetic memory to aid in the invasion of the city Ephebe, which is full of philosophers, gods, and is not very cooperative at all.<br />In Pratchett's hand the struggles of Om and Brutha are the basic material for a funny and insightful look at the difference between worship and belief.  Pratchett has little toleration for dogma, unquestioning belief, or the abuse of religious power.  But he is never unkind, simply honest, and it is clear that he writes from a strong ethical sense.  He is to be admired for undertaking what is usually a difficult subject and bringing his points home with considerable consideration and love.  If you're looking for a diatribe you won't find it here.  If what you want is a bit of insight and a lot of snorts and chuckles, \\"Small Gods\\" is just the book for you.	2001-06-30
1940698:US	53082946	R2E7BF8WMZX2R1	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Only Shoot Them When They're Dead	You would think that Stephanie Plum's assignment to bring in Eddie DeChooch was in the bag. After all, he was as old as Methuselah, half-blind, and hard of hearing. So what if he liked to shoot people and was dating her grandmother. So Stephanie and sidekick Lulu were a bit surprised when Eddie makes like a rabbit and jumps out the bathroom window, hops into a big white Cadillac and heads for the hills. Leaving them holding the bag with a stiff in the garage!<br />Stephanie discovers that Eddie is the most sought after man in the burg. Not only is everyone is looking for him, but several are keeping an eye on Stephanie in case she finds him. It doesn't help that she does keep stumbling on him, and he keeps getting away every time. As is usual in an Evanovich book, the situation quickly escalates from comic to gloriously insane. Her friend Dougie has disappeared, Joe Morelli and her family are maneuvering her into a formal wedding, Bob the Wonder Dog is eating the universe and Vincent the bondman has also put Joyce (Stephanie's arch-enemy) on the DeChooch case. If that isn't enough, Stephanie's perfect sister Valery leaves her husband in California and goes through a major sexual identity crisis.<br />When Stephanie calls on Ranger her old buddy and mentor for help he agrees IF she will spend the night in bed with him. Stephanie discovers that she likes the idea, a lot. But even with Ranger's help they are nearly overwhelmed. She and Lulu wind up in an epic mud wrestling match, Eddie shoots Jesus, Mooner the space cadet also disappears, and, like clockwork, her car gets crushed. Now riding a heavily customized Harley, Stephanie and Lulu ride off to fight the good fight. When Stephanie finally comes up with a plan to corner Eddie, he kidnaps her grandmother in revenge.<br />Will Grandma Mazur be rescued? Will Stephanie marry Joe Morelli or sleep with Ranger. Or, maybe, both? Will she be able to rescue Dougie and Mooner? Will she and Ranger be able to capture Eddie DeChooch without destroying both her sanity and her reputation? Have you and doubts? Remember that we're dealing with Stephanie Plum, current record holder in the major dog poop lawn ornament contest.<br />Janet Evanovich never fails to amaze. She seems to have an inexhaustible supply of weird and eccentric characters in her bag of trick. Her plots are complex, but move along with the speed of summer lightning. Readers are so busy laughing at one crazy stunt after another that they often are unawares of Evanovich's carefully crafted writing and superb characterizations. &quot;Seven Up&quot; is another successful foray into the lighter side of mystery fiction.hooch without destroying both her sanity and her reputation? Have you and doubts? Remember that we're dealing with Stephanie Plum, current record holder in the major dog poop lawn ornament contest.<br />Janet Evanovich never fails to amaze. She seems to have an inexhaustible supply of weird and eccentric characters in her bag of trick. Her plots are complex, but move along with the speed of summer lightning. Readers are so busy laughing at one crazy stunt after another that they often are unawares of Evanovich's carefully crafted writing and superb characterizations. &quot;Seven Up&quot; is another successful foray into the lighter side of mystery fiction.	2001-06-28
1942856:US	53082946	R3O41XGG29YKSX	0312859279	353210303	Issola (The Vlad Taltos Novels)	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Another Superb Dragaeran Tale	Every time I give up hope and decide that Stephen Brust has decided to stick to making music and drop out of the writing business he produces another delightful tale.  \\"Issola,\\" next in the Vlad Taltos series, is classic Brust, funny, imaginative and captivating.  It is easy to run out of superlatives with this series, which is consistently good fantasy.  This latest effort is certainly one of his finest.<br />After a very bad run in with House Jhereg (his adopted clan) Vlad Taltos decides his best policy is to stay out of Adrilankha, maybe forever.  While camping out in the woods with Loiosh his wisecracking familiar he receives a visit from Lady Teldra, one of Lord Morrolan's attendants.  Vlad is more than a bit surprised since no one knows where he is, and he is supposed to be invisible.  Teldra reassures him, and tells him that he is needed to help find Lord Morrolan and Aliera, close friends of Vlad.  Off they go to Sethra Lavode's home (she's the world's oldest vampire) on Dzur Mountain.<br />Vlad and Teldra manage to track down Morrolan and Aliera, only to be captured themselves.  The villains of the piece are the Jenoine, an ancient race who have no love for anyone else, god or mortal.  Vlad and Teldra discover that the Jenoine plan to tap a huge source of Amorphia to get rid of the more irritating parts of the scenery, like Vlad, Loiosh, Teldra, and, possible, even a good chunk of the universe.  A complicated chess game starts with Vlad feeling very much like a pawn as gods, demons, Dragaerans, the Jenoine, and a few more impossibilities wrestle for the fate of his world.<br />Vlad's frustration mounts as he deals with folk and superfolk who are legendary and who have little interest in having to explain everything to a mere Easterner.  Vlad's continuous patter of sharp comments and sarcastic remarks, provide much entertainment to the reader (and to Loiosh), but they hide a deep anxiety about the outcome.  He finds himself with a vital role in a struggle but one that is not clearly defined.  The drama plays out with surprises for all involved, especially Vlad, who finds that he has a new role in the workings of the Dragaerans.<br />Brust, who always creates intriguing characters, outdoes himself in \\"Issola.\\"  He provides the reader with additional insights into Morrolan, Aliera, Sethra Lavode, the Necromancer, and Verra the Demon Goddess.  Teldra, previously just a bit player, is a work of art.  Nor can one fault the narrative, which has Brust's usual clarity and flow.  Needless to say the new reader might be better off with an earlier volume in the series, but Brust spends just enough time on history to provide the reader with enough to go on.  Naturally, the faithful will be delighted.  As will anyone else who is looking for what will probably be considered one of the year's best fantasies.but one that is not clearly defined.  The drama plays out with surprises for all involved, especially Vlad, who finds that he has a new role in the workings of the Dragaerans.<br />Brust, who always creates intriguing characters, outdoes himself in \\"Issola.\\"  He provides the reader with additional insights into Morrolan, Aliera, Sethra Lavode, the Necromancer, and Verra the Demon Goddess.  Teldra, previously just a bit player, is a work of art.  Nor can one fault the narrative, which has Brust's usual clarity and flow.  Needless to say the new reader might be better off with an earlier volume in the series, but Brust spends just enough time on history to provide the reader with enough to go on.  Naturally, the faithful will be delighted.  As will anyone else who is looking for what will probably be considered one of the year's best fantasies.	2001-06-27
1946922:US	53082946	R1FLS3O3PDT0MM	1565048571	181450080	Year of the Scarab, Book 1: Herald of the Storm	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hunter's Rock - A Fine Effort by a New Author	This is the first volume outside of the Predator &amp; Prey introductory series that deals with hunters, humans who have pierced the shroud of darkness around the Masquerade and are actively seeking to do away with creepy guys.  I have honestly been less than enthusiastic about the P&amp;P tales, but \\"Heralds of the Storm\\" turned out to be a very pleasant surprise.<br />Thea Ghandour is a member of the Van Helsing Brigade, a clan of monster hunters that works in and around Chicago.  Her compatriots, Romeo, Parker, Jake, Dean, Carl, and Lilly, are young men and women with a strong sense of cause.  Each has developed special talents that help in their battles and have kept them alive so far.  They do not lack for courage, but frequently hide their fears behind anger and bickering.<br />The book opens with an attack on a vampire's lair near Chicago.  Even as they infiltrate the site, they realize something isn't quite right.  It goes too easily.  Most of the guards are gone or are quickly handled.  The guard watching the security is dead.  After killing the Vampire with minimal injury, the entire lair is destroyed by explosives as they leave.  Thea and the others suspect that someone was there before them, and that they are being set up.<br />When Thea gets a brief, anonymous phone call her fears are confirmed.  But the gang has no clue on how to proceed.  Before they can do much research, several brigade members are attacked and killed by zombies.  Thea arrives in time to prevent things from being even worse and finds herself being helped by a stranger, who identifies himself as Maxwell Carpenter and pulls Thea and her unconscious friends from the building.  Then he erases her memories and disappears.<br />Thea awakes in a hospital.  When Romeo tells her she was pulled from the building by a super zombie who can pass for human she remembers what happened.  Frantic research reveals that Carpenter was a 1920s gangster and was definitely dead.  Many more phone calls and arguments later they finally meet with Carpenter.  He asks them to help him get into the Temple of Akhenaton in downtown Chicago and gives them some time to consider their answer.<br />Carpenter has his own agenda, the complete destruction of the Sforza clan that caused his death years earlier.  Thea and the Brigade find this out and are torn over whether they should cooperate with Carpenter or kill him for the monster he is.  What they decide, and the horrific results of that decision fill the remainder of this volume and the next two novels of this promising and exciting trilogy.<br />This may be Andrew Bates first novel, but he shows considerable skill and talent.  His characters have none of the stick figure quality which often troubles World of Darkness novels.  Bates has a good sense of timing and a fine eye for detail as well.  My only gripe is that the novel's designer decided to sacrifice page numbers for decoration.  As a reviewer, I found this quite irritating.  Otherwise this series looks like a winner from the folks at White Wolf.d arguments later they finally meet with Carpenter.  He asks them to help him get into the Temple of Akhenaton in downtown Chicago and gives them some time to consider their answer.<br />Carpenter has his own agenda, the complete destruction of the Sforza clan that caused his death years earlier.  Thea and the Brigade find this out and are torn over whether they should cooperate with Carpenter or kill him for the monster he is.  What they decide, and the horrific results of that decision fill the remainder of this volume and the next two novels of this promising and exciting trilogy.<br />This may be Andrew Bates first novel, but he shows considerable skill and talent.  His characters have none of the stick figure quality which often troubles World of Darkness novels.  Bates has a good sense of timing and a fine eye for detail as well.  My only gripe is that the novel's designer decided to sacrifice page numbers for decoration.  As a reviewer, I found this quite irritating.  Otherwise this series looks like a winner from the folks at White Wolf.	2001-06-24
1948307:US	53082946	R2OG0GQYYXF31B	0441000916	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Dead Are My Specialty	\\"The Laughing Corpse\\" is Laurell Hamilton's second Anita Blake novel.  As good as the \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" was this new work is even better, and establishes a high standard for vampire fiction.  In a genre noted primarily for it's male heroes, Anita Blake stands out.  Smart, tough, deadly and beautiful, Anita is all business when it comes to her profession as animator of corpses and executioner of the undead.<br />This time Anita is asked to raise a corpse for Harold Gaynor, an extremely wealthy and very shady character with a 300 year old corpse he would like to chat with.  Even though Anita believes she could raise it, she refuses.  It takes power to raise old bodies, the kind of power that can only be released by the sacrifice of a `white goat,' a human being.  Anita leaves, expecting further trouble with Gaynor.<br />A short time later Anita is called to a nightmarish crime scene where the murder has literally eaten two parents in their home and disappeared with their small child.  Viewing the bloody scene Anita suspects the existence of zombie driven by the need to feast on human flesh, an extremely rare form that could only have been raised by a rogue animator.  In her efforts to find the zombie and it's creator Anita arranges to speak with Dominga Salvador, the tremendously powerful Voodoo queen of St. Louis.<br />The interview does not go well.  Dominga is intrigued with Anita's skills and is determined to test her powers.  Anita, who has kept her own ability clear of the taint of witchcraft and necromancy, is deeply angered by Dominga's probing and, being Anita, returns the insult.  If being hounded by Gaynor's goons wasn't enough, now Anita must cope with the very real threats of Dominga Salvador, who can kill at will.<br />To complete this heady mixture, Jean-Claude, world's sexiest vampire, and master of the city is after Anita.  Unlike everyone else, he has no intention of killing her.  Having marked her twice, she is close to becoming his human servant.  Anita has no intention of letting this happen, but Jean-Claude is not listening.  He has to keep up his own appearances and Anita is a thorn in his side.  A thorn he would like to get to know much better.<br />Gradually these threads weave together, as Anita realizes that the mystery of the killer zombie has something to do with both Gaynor and Dominga Salvador.  Not just her life but her eternal soul is at risk.  But Anita refuses to back down.  It takes all her strength and willpower to overcome here own fears and attempt to bring peace of mind back to the citizens of St. Louis.<br />You may feel Anita is a bit to stubborn and sharp tongued for her own good, but they are natural expressions of the independence and courage which she has to prove every day.  You can't help but admire her determination to do the right thing, at all costs.  By all means, read \\"The Laughing Corpse,\\" and \\"Guilty Pleasures,\\" and all of the sequels as well.  Laurell Hamilton has created a new formula for gritty vampire fiction..  Anita has no intention of letting this happen, but Jean-Claude is not listening.  He has to keep up his own appearances and Anita is a thorn in his side.  A thorn he would like to get to know much better.<br />Gradually these threads weave together, as Anita realizes that the mystery of the killer zombie has something to do with both Gaynor and Dominga Salvador.  Not just her life but her eternal soul is at risk.  But Anita refuses to back down.  It takes all her strength and willpower to overcome here own fears and attempt to bring peace of mind back to the citizens of St. Louis.  <br />You may feel Anita is a bit to stubborn and sharp tongued for her own good, but they are natural expressions of the independence and courage which she has to prove every day.  You can't help but admire her determination to do the right thing, at all costs.  By all means, read \\"The Laughing Corpse,\\" and \\"Guilty Pleasures,\\" and all of the sequels as well.  Laurell Hamilton has created a new formula for gritty vampire fiction.	2001-06-22
1948660:US	53082946	R2R6OLNYGJ5APB	0671319884	979968594	Quincey Morris, Vampire	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Social Revolution and the Victorian Vampire	P.N. Elrod is one of our more prolific vampire novelists.  Always, her vampires have been unique and non-traditional in the behavior and powers.  I have always wondered how these entertaining creatures were related to the grand tradition of Dracula and his equally horrific cousins.  In \\"Quincey Morris, Vampire,\\" Elrod gives us a fascinating answer as she begins what will hopefully be a new series.<br />Morris, you may remember, died in the process of destroying Dracula, who had fled back to Transylvania when his plans for establishing a British homestead failed.  To Morris' great dismay he awakens in the night to discover that, as the result of an old affair, he has become a vampire.  Worse, Dracula was there to welcome him into the club.  After considerable discussion and argument, Quincey returns to the castle with Dracula, for introductory and advanced vampire classes.<br />It turns out that Quincey is a different breed of vampire than Dracula was.  Dracula was the soulless, evil, turn into animals, bite people on the neck and damn their souls to hell breed.  Quincey was the mild mannered, sleeps by day, drinks blood from animals sort of vampire.  Quincey's soul was still intact, and he had no problem with crosses, garlic and other anti-vampire paraphernalia.  Both can disappear at will and hypnotize people.  In short, Quincey is the classic Elrod vampire.<br />Having graduated from vampire school, Quincey heads off, first to Paris and then on to London.  In Paris Quincey discovers that sex and neck nibbling go well together.  With a little hypnosis, the young lady is none the wiser, but suitably impressed.  It's quite clear that, if Quincey is going to hell, it won't be because he had to sleep during the day.  Once back in London Quincey meets Bertice Godalming, the sister of Quincey's best friend Arthur, Lord Godalming, and by far the most interesting character in the book.<br />Bertrice is the scandal of the Godalming clan, an actress, a painter, bohemian and wearer of bloomers.  To which may be added intelligent, capable and very good looking.  Quincey, vampire powers and all, is totally overwhemed.  The rest of the book is occupied with this explosive relationship and Quincey's efforts to let Arthur and his other friends in on the secret of his return from the grave.  Quincey find's himself in a struggle with Dr. Van Helsing for his very survival as Elrod develops all these threads into a tremendous climax.<br />Quincey and Bertrice offset each other very well, so hopefully Elrod will be inspired to continue the series.  Victorian England is a more diverse setting than Gangland Chicago, that should provide material for many plots to come.  I do have to wonder why Elrod's lead roles are always held by male vampires.  In any case, Bertrice is not the kind of woman who will take second place to any man, immortal or not.  We shall have to see.wearer of bloomers.  To which may be added intelligent, capable and very good looking.  Quincey, vampire powers and all, is totally overwhemed.  The rest of the book is occupied with this explosive relationship and Quincey's efforts to let Arthur and his other friends in on the secret of his return from the grave.  Quincey find's himself in a struggle with Dr. Van Helsing for his very survival as Elrod develops all these threads into a tremendous climax.  <br />Quincey and Bertrice offset each other very well, so hopefully Elrod will be inspired to continue the series.  Victorian England is a more diverse setting than Gangland Chicago, that should provide material for many plots to come.  I do have to wonder why Elrod's lead roles are always held by male vampires.  In any case, Bertrice is not the kind of woman who will take second place to any man, immortal or not.  We shall have to see.	2001-06-22
1952471:US	53082946	R3FYK6Y0PYLERM	0786703830	999720718	Tether's End	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Now You See Him ...	\\"Tether's End\\" is one of Margery Allingham's more atypical works. Rather than take their normal place as main characters, Albert Campion and Charlie Luke appear only occasionally. In each case they serve to provide vital context and to move the plot along, but they do not take part in direct action until the book is almost over.<br /><br />Instead the tale is about a seemingly unconnected series of killings which Luke is convinced are related somehow. A bus with a strange old couple in it is used to transport a victim from a crime scene and then vanishes. Another old couple sets out for South Africa and disappear. Jewelry from an unsolved murder turns up unexpectedly. All of these event seem to be related to Luke's old stamping grounds, Goff's Square, and Garden Green<br /><br />While Campion and Luke try to fit the pieces together, the narrator moves on, shifting from the murderer's point of view to that of several important and delightful characters. Annabel Tassie has come t!o London at the invitation of her Aunt Polly. Polly runs a museum of peculiarities that were originally collected by her late husband. Having never met Aunt Polly, Annabel calls on her Richard Waterfield, an old friend to keep an eye out for her. Richard, who is starting out his professional life in the big city, hasn't seen Annabel since he failed to marry her sister and is greatly affected by the changes in his old chum. I believe it takes him about 5 seconds to fall totally under her spell.<br /><br />It is Richard and Annabel who are the true main characters. Their separate adventures, Annabel with Aunt Polly, and Richard with the murderer that Luke and Campion are hunting, provide the main backdrop for the tense and chilling story of a killer who is gradually spinning out of control. Their paths weave through restaurants, clubs, barbershops, and city dumps until, at last, they come together in the small museum across from Garden Green.<br /><br />\\"Tether's End\\" is an intricate an!d thrilling tale, a disturbing look into the mind of a charming sociopath, and an intriguing study of London life at the end of the 1950's. As she did in \\"Tiger in the Smoke,\\" Margery Allingham turns from comfortable writing habits to show a rare expertise with psychological fiction. I like this book better than \\"Tiger in the Smoke,\\" but I'm quite confident that the Allingham fan will find both irresistible.turbing look into the mind of a charming sociopath, and an intriguing study of London life at the end of the 1950's. As she did in \\"Tiger in the Smoke,\\" Margery Allingham turns from comfortable writing habits to show a rare expertise with psychological fiction. I like this book better than \\"Tiger in the Smoke,\\" but I'm quite confident that the Allingham fan will find both irresistible.	2001-06-19
1955924:US	53082946	R30L9RNP28XFOL	0812589637	438748927	Worse Than Death	Books	3	14	14	N	Y	Sex and the Inner Vampire	As the result of their earlier adventures in \\"Love Bite,\\" ex-police detective Jace Levy and his vampire lover Risha Cardigan went on an extended vacation.  Now they have returned to Los Angeles so that Risha can pursue her photographic career.  Jace, still undecided about becoming a vampire himself, is offered a job as a private investigator by Robert Brandon, a film producer.  It seems that one of the actresses Brandon has been indulging his fantasies with has decided to blackmail him.  Jace's assignment is to get the extortion stopped.<br />Almost from the beginning the case turns weird.  Jace traces many of the `actresses' to a single agent, who died recently.  As he pries beneath the surface he begins to suspect that there is some form of collusion among several of the women.  Jace suspects that he is dealing with an organized gang, but the more he looks the murkier things get.  When some of his suspects seem to evaporate, if they ever existed at all, he is completely baffled.<br />In the meantime, Jace's love life begins to get murky as well.  Jace is secretly suffering from Huntingdon's Chorea, and the symptoms have been worsening.  Out of love for Risha and fear of his own mortality, he decides to take the big step.  He asks Risha to make him a vampire.  Weeks later, after he has made the big switch, Jace discovers a serious flaw in the male vampire design.  Before switching he and Risha had a rich and varied sex life.  Now, Jace has become impotent.<br />This induces a crisis of epic proportions.  When Risha mentions that her previous vampire lover had the same problem, Jace feels betrayed.  When Jace's disease comes out, Risha feels used.  In the subsequent argument Risha heads for New Orleans to think things over and Jace finally returns to his case, after some exceptionally rash behavior.  Will Jace locate the real blackmailer?  Will Risha forgive him?  Will our poor hero regain his abilities?  Only the reader can find out.<br />I'm afraid I found this tale a bit unsatisfactory.  The conflict between the two plots causes a complete standstill in the action for the middle third of the book while Jace tried to deal with his issues.  Since Jace's self image was extremely macho, he doesn't do very well.  In the meantime, a plot which was already a bit thin and anemic nearly evaporates.  When the action finally gets underway again Sherry Gottlieb rushes everything to a conclusion.  The change in pace is almost jarring.<br />In the final analysis, this is neither the hard-boiled detective story nor the sexy vampire tale that the cover promises.  Risha demonstrates an unappealing coldness in her choice of victims (she prefers the homeless and other innocent victims).  Jace embraces better ethics, but his total character dissolution in the face of his impotence is not a pretty sight and reveals an uncomplimentary shallowness.  It's up to the reader, but Laurell Hamilton does sexier vampire tales and Tanya Huff writes stronger vampire/human detective tales.  If you haven't encountered these authors I suggest you look into them.le a bit unsatisfactory.  The conflict between the two plots causes a complete standstill in the action for the middle third of the book while Jace tried to deal with his issues.  Since Jace's self image was extremely macho, he doesn't do very well.  In the meantime, a plot which was already a bit thin and anemic nearly evaporates.  When the action finally gets underway again Sherry Gottlieb rushes everything to a conclusion.  The change in pace is almost jarring.<br />In the final analysis, this is neither the hard-boiled detective story nor the sexy vampire tale that the cover promises.  Risha demonstrates an unappealing coldness in her choice of victims (she prefers the homeless and other innocent victims).  Jace embraces better ethics, but his total character dissolution in the face of his impotence is not a pretty sight and reveals an uncomplimentary shallowness.  It's up to the reader, but Laurell Hamilton does sexier vampire tales and Tanya Huff writes stronger vampire/human detective tales.  If you haven't encountered these authors I suggest you look into them.	2001-06-17
1957333:US	53082946	R3HTZZCQ2Y5H60	0312262531	110488054	Cruzatte and Maria (Montana Mysteries)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Bowen Brings Northern Montana to Life	Peter Bowen has been writing his tales of Gabriel Du Pre, a Metis Indian, master fiddler, detective and righter-of-wrongs extraordinaire for some time now.  Du Pre, his mate, Madelaine and his many dear friends in Toussaint, Montana have acquired a loyal following during that time.  Bowen's new book, \\"Cruzatte and Maria\\" is his finest yet, and will greatly please all readers, new and old.<br />When Du Pre's old friend in the FBI, Harvey Wallace, asks him to look into a series of disappearances in the White Cliffs area of the Missouri River Gabriel is troubled and refuses to become involved.  Residents of that area, mostly ranchers, have been under continuous attack by environmentalists and encroachment by yuppie wilderness seekers.  Du Pre understands the ranchers' struggle and senses an underlying, irresolvable tragedy.<br />Unfortunately, Du Pre's is unable to maintain his distance.  His daughter Maria has returned to Toussaint with her boyfriend to help with the making of a television special on the Lewis and Clark voyage.  Maria is descended on both sides from the four Metis Indians that accompanied the adventurers and Gabriel is dragged into the production as a consultant and advisor.  Naturally, the movie is to be filmed on the banks of the Missouri, in the same location as the disappearances.  Gabriel smells a set up, but concedes gracefully (actually he curses a lot) and undertakes both missions.  As the story progresses Du Pre's worst fears and greatest hopes are realized.  Metis life and history, politics, Hollywood and the rancher's struggle for recognition and independence mix together in a heady, sometimes disquieting, stew.<br />Bowen is an absolute wizard with characters.  Not only Du Pre, but many other characters come brilliantly to life, even in the short space of this novel.  Bart, Du Pre's billionaire friend and Benetsee, the mad/wise holy man who drives Du Pre crazy with riddles stand out.  A new and special character is Pallas, one of Du Pre's eleven grandchildren.  She will totally charm the reader with her seven-going-on-thirty attitude and her sharp, accurate tongue.  The ranchers, members of the movie company and countless bit players are all unforgettably painted.<br />Perhaps the best thing about Bowen's writing is his insight into the Metis Indians.  They are a tribe mostly forgotten to American and Canadian history, who played a great part in the fur trade in Canada and Montana.  As a multi-tribal mixture of indigenous, French and Scottish blood they have had great difficulty gaining recognition as an independent culture.  The are strong folk, with a rich musical tradition and an indomitable spirit.  Bowen's Metis are people of great character, wry, fun loving, and deeply respectful of their people, their friends and the land they live on.  Bowen captures their language and dry sarcastic wit perfectly.  The reader will leave \\"Cruzatte and Maria\\" delighted to have spent time with these remarkable people.eleven grandchildren.  She will totally charm the reader with her seven-going-on-thirty attitude and her sharp, accurate tongue.  The ranchers, members of the movie company and countless bit players are all unforgettably painted.  <br />Perhaps the best thing about Bowen's writing is his insight into the Metis Indians.  They are a tribe mostly forgotten to American and Canadian history, who played a great part in the fur trade in Canada and Montana.  As a multi-tribal mixture of indigenous, French and Scottish blood they have had great difficulty gaining recognition as an independent culture.  The are strong folk, with a rich musical tradition and an indomitable spirit.  Bowen's Metis are people of great character, wry, fun loving, and deeply respectful of their people, their friends and the land they live on.  Bowen captures their language and dry sarcastic wit perfectly.  The reader will leave \\"Cruzatte and Maria\\" delighted to have spent time with these remarkable people.	2001-06-16
1957350:US	53082946	R18QW6RXLOKP7C	044100847X	413326858	Interlopers (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	What You Can't See Can Hurt You	Alan Dean Foster, a prolific science fiction writer who is always on target takes on alien invasion with an entirely new twist.  Just imagine if secretive, unworldly characters from another dimension were the real cause of a whole list of ills, from headaches to world wars.  Just because they were hungry!<br />When student archeologists Cody Westcott and Kelli Alwydd discover a secret cache of Chachapoyan artifacts in an ancient Peruvian mountain site, they know that this is the discovery of a lifetime.  What they don't realize is that they have also found the key to a trans-dimensional invasion of eerie creatures that feed on the anguish and pain of human beings.  When they return to the States Cody begins the translation of  the difficult Chachapoyan hieroglyphics<br />He finds a recipe for a tincture whose purpose he cannot divine.  When he has the potion made up he discovers that it has permanently altered his sight so that he can see these invisible invaders.  They are horrific looking and lurk in all kinds of natural objects, such as rocks, plants, even the ground itself, waiting for an opportunity to infest a human.  When Cody tries to stop several attacks he initiates a personal war with the alien Interlopers that he cannot hope to win.  Not only must Cody avoid contact with any infected material, he must hide from victims of the Interlopers who fall under their control.<br />Unable to stop Cody, the Interlopers attack Kelli, now his wife.  Cody finds her unconscious, struggling for her life in a hospital.  He must start a desperate search for help if he is to have any hope of saving Kelli.  That help comes from unexpected sources, and Cody finds that he must help save the world if he wants to save Kelli's life and sanity.<br />\\"Interlopers\\" is written in the same style as many of Foster's long list of successful science adventure tales, from \\"Glory Lane\\" to \\"Jed the Dead.\\"  His style is light and entertaining, and is easily accessible to all age groups.  He has a host of interesting characters and mixes well researched facts with creative interpretations.  Not only do I like \\"Interlopers\\" as a great read, I appreciate its positive belief in human nature.  Something that is often lacking in today's fiction.He has a host of interesting characters and mixes well researched facts with creative interpretations.  Not only do I like \\"Interlopers\\" as a great read, I appreciate its positive belief in human nature.  Something that is often lacking in today's fiction.	2001-06-15
1958480:US	53082946	RTGXJF4TVJG7H	0195215737	203212423	Oxford English Dictionary on CD-ROM (Windows)	Books	5	23	28	N	Y	The Word Lover's Guidebook	You wouldn&#8217;t be here if you didn&#8217;t love the English language.  Thus, I do not need to wax over-eloquently on the joys of investigating words.  Of finding their common and rarer meanings and learning their history.  Nor do I have to dwell on the great pleasure of knowing that you have used exactly the correct word in its correct context.<br />Whether you are an etymologist, a student, writer, lover of the obscure, or even someone who likes to make a wager now and then, the OED has to be one of your most vital references.  Untold man years of effort have gone into the collection and redaction of the atoms of written and spoken English.  To peer into the many pages of the OED is to peer into the many corridors of the human mind.<br />Until the popularization of the compact disk, the only way to take this journey was via the ponderous  20 volume set, or the nearly unreadable miniaturized version (magnifying glass included).  Now, thanks to modern technology, I can have all this incredible word wizardry on my computer, quickly responsive to my needs and curiosity.<br />The OED arrives as a set of two CD&#8217;s, one of which contains the software and indices, the other of which holds the definitions and data.  Installation was straightforward on my Windows 98, 1 Gigaherz machine, although the software did develop a slight glitch which then went away.<br />The data CD is required for operation.  It cannot be copied, unfortunately, which means it must be treated with considerable care and love. It is possible to get a replacement CD once, for a fee.  This is an unfortunate arrangement, but one can understand that the publishers wish to prevent the pirating of very valuable data.  I would have preferred that they had found a better way to accomplish this.<br />When you initiate the software there is a slight delay while it checks the CD for the copy protection scheme.  On my machine this was hardly noticeable, but I see that others have complained about this, so slower drives (mine is 40X) might cause irritation.<br />In use the OED works very much like a web site, providing search facilities and entry lists to aid you in tracking down a word.  The entries themselves are displayed clearly, and several options are provided to simplify of extend the display.  Cross-reference links are also provided.  It is possible to search definitions as well as entries themselves.<br />The CD version of the OED it technically every bit as useful as the paper editions.  In some ways it is an improvement.  My only complaint is that it lacks the &#8216;feel&#8217; of a book.  I&#8217;m used to letting my eyes range over the pages after looking up a particular word, spelunking, if you will, for new words to add to my personal collection.  Browsing is still possible, but it is reduced to an unbookish scanning of the index list.  This is a small price to pay for the overall convenience and economy of the CD&#8217;s, so I will survive it.<br />One other negative is that Oxford University Press has not quite mastered the support of software yet.  The support website for the CD edition is promising but incomplete.  Resign yourself to having to take on their technical support in a more direct fashion.slower drives (mine is 40X) might cause irritation.<br />In use the OED works very much like a web site, providing search facilities and entry lists to aid you in tracking down a word.  The entries themselves are displayed clearly, and several options are provided to simplify of extend the display.  Cross-reference links are also provided.  It is possible to search definitions as well as entries themselves.<br />The CD version of the OED it technically every bit as useful as the paper editions.  In some ways it is an improvement.  My only complaint is that it lacks the &#8216;feel&#8217; of a book.  I&#8217;m used to letting my eyes range over the pages after looking up a particular word, spelunking, if you will, for new words to add to my personal collection.  Browsing is still possible, but it is reduced to an unbookish scanning of the index list.  This is a small price to pay for the overall convenience and economy of the CD&#8217;s, so I will survive it.<br />One other negative is that Oxford University Press has not quite mastered the support of software yet.  The support website for the CD edition is promising but incomplete.  Resign yourself to having to take on their technical support in a more direct fashion.	2001-06-15
1964741:US	53082946	R30THKRAW8QJPU	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Dalgleish Returns!	It has been some considerable time since P. D. James has written an Adam Dalgleish mystery.  The last, I believe, was &quot;A Certain Justice.&quot;  For some reason I had trouble with that novel.  I bought &quot;Death in Holy Orders&quot; when it came out, but let it languish on my shelf for a while before diving in.<br />When I finally started reading the new novel I realized that I had entirely forgotten what an accomplished writer James really is.  Her ability to create vivid and believable plots, settings and characters really is remarkable.  Capable of extreme power when she needs to call upon it, James is not a lighthearted writer.  But neither is her style oppressive or exhausting.<br />Commander Adam Dalgleish, her detective, is a character painted with considerable sensitivity.  He is an unusual character for a policeman, sober and philosophical.  His avocation is writing poetry, at which he has enjoyed considerable success.  The death of his wife at an early age, and the nature of his job gives him with a poignancy which perfectly balances the tragic nature of the crimes he investigates.<br />When a theological student at St. Anselm's College is found buried under a sandfall, his father is not satisfied with the finding of accidental death by the Suffolk police.  Adam Dalgleish is asked to look into the crime.  He had spent several summers at St. Anselm's and so was familiar with the setting.  Although unable to form any conclusion about the boy's death, Dalgleish is struck by many coincidental events and is not totally satisfied.  Margaret Munroe, a nurse and attendant at the school, dies of apparently natural causes, but the death prevents Dalgleish from following up some important evidence.<br />St Anselm's is facing closure as the result of the Episcopalian Church's need to consolidate its theological training.  The holdings of the school are quite valuable, and an unusual will makes the disposition of these artifacts is a bone of great contention between Archdeacon Crampton, who represents the diocese and Father Sebastion, who heads St. Anselm's.  There are few in the school who have reason to like the Archdeacon.  He sent one of the clergymen to prison for sexual misconduct on trumped up charges.  A local policeman in retreat at the school suffered disciplinary action when he investigated Crampton's complicity in the death of his first wife.  Several students were vehemently antagonistic to the Archdeacon's behavior.<br />When Archdeacon Crampton is found horribly murdered before the altar of St Anselm's church it comes as no surprise.  Dalgleish takes over the case with his regular squad, and quickly determines that the crime must have been committed by one of the school's residents.  Sensing a subtle mind at work, the commander is faced with a complex investigation full of contradictory clues and intuitions.<br />For all the time that P. D. James lovingly puts into the details of setting and characterization, &quot;Death in Holy Orders&quot; is hardly slow paced.  I found myself quickly drawn in and it was a great struggle to put down the book the few times I was able.  Dalgleish's introspection keeps the plot from becoming shallow, providing a satisfactory experience at many levels.  The will be a serious contender for mystery story of the year.etween Archdeacon Crampton, who represents the diocese and Father Sebastion, who heads St. Anselm's.  There are few in the school who have reason to like the Archdeacon.  He sent one of the clergymen to prison for sexual misconduct on trumped up charges.  A local policeman in retreat at the school suffered disciplinary action when he investigated Crampton's complicity in the death of his first wife.  Several students were vehemently antagonistic to the Archdeacon's behavior.<br />When Archdeacon Crampton is found horribly murdered before the altar of St Anselm's church it comes as no surprise.  Dalgleish takes over the case with his regular squad, and quickly determines that the crime must have been committed by one of the school's residents.  Sensing a subtle mind at work, the commander is faced with a complex investigation full of contradictory clues and intuitions.<br />For all the time that P. D. James lovingly puts into the details of setting and characterization, &quot;Death in Holy Orders&quot; is hardly slow paced.  I found myself quickly drawn in and it was a great struggle to put down the book the few times I was able.  Dalgleish's introspection keeps the plot from becoming shallow, providing a satisfactory experience at many levels.  The will be a serious contender for mystery story of the year.	2001-06-10
1965133:US	53082946	RRNJ2C31OG3N7	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	286	306	N	N	I am The Executioner, and I Dont Date Vampires.	I have been a great fan of Laurell Hamilton.  I greatly admire her writing ability and imagination.  And her daring as well, she is willing to confront unusual sexual issues in a genre where sexuality is more often a matter of hints and gestures.  Struck by the intensity of the sexual focus in her recent work I thought it would be entertaining to go back and reread some of Hamilton's earlier books.<br />\\"Guilty Pleasures\\" is the first of the Anita Blake series.  What makes the series unique is the strong, tough-minded character of the heroine and narrator.  Before \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" vampire stories rarely had female leads, let alone one with the hard-nosed style of Anita Blake.  She is a professional animator (one who raises the dead) and a licensed vampire killer in an alternate earth where vampires have come out of the closet (coffin?) and are active participants in American life.<br />Hamilton's vampires are of the Anne Rice genre.  They are beautiful, deadly and follow their own code of ethics.  Many humans have become enthralled with them, but many are deeply suspicious.  To Anita they are monsters who, when they go out of control, must be killed.  But U.S. law protects vampires that behave themselves.  Even so, when someone starts killing the vampires of St. Louis, authorities make little progress.  Angered, two of the strongest vampires in the city, Jean-Claude and Nikolaos, convince Anita to hunt down the killer.<br />Jean-Claude is one of the modern romantic vampires, easy to look at with fine manners and style.  Nikolaos, on the other hand, is a thousand year old sadistic horror in the body of a thirteen year old girl.  Her powers are unimaginable and dark hungers hide under her innocent looks.  The vampiress takes an immediate dislike to Anita's feisty style and our heroine spends as much time dodging Nikolaos' efforts to injure and enslave her as she does seeking the killer.  Jean-Claude comes under attack as well as he tries to help Anita.<br />Hamilton's way with characters is one of her great strengths.  We meet several of Anita's regular companions for the first time.  Edward the hyper-violent bounty hunter, and Veronica, a private investigator and friend are outstanding, as are many of the bit players.  Her vampires and their human servants are vivid personalities.  This gives the novel a realistic feel that comes as a surprise in the vampire genre.<br />The plot is fast paced, often moving from cliff-hanger to horrific confrontation with all the agility of the ball in a pinball game.  There is a steady sexual undercurrent that veers towards sadistic and fetish oriented pleasures.  It is a natural outgrowth of the vampire personality and is as chilling as it is erotic.  In \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" it is an effective plot device that keeps the heat turned up.  If you are a vampire story fan you will find Laurell Hamilton's efforts deeply satisfying.n's way with characters is one of her great strengths.  We meet several of Anita's regular companions for the first time.  Edward the hyper-violent bounty hunter, and Veronica, a private investigator and friend are outstanding, as are many of the bit players.  Her vampires and their human servants are vivid personalities.  This gives the novel a realistic feel that comes as a surprise in the vampire genre. <br />The plot is fast paced, often moving from cliff-hanger to horrific confrontation with all the agility of the ball in a pinball game.  There is a steady sexual undercurrent that veers towards sadistic and fetish oriented pleasures.  It is a natural outgrowth of the vampire personality and is as chilling as it is erotic.  In \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" it is an effective plot device that keeps the heat turned up.  If you are a vampire story fan you will find Laurell Hamilton's efforts deeply satisfying.	2001-06-10
1966906:US	53082946	R2Z1BSWDR5MJUW	0380705745	531169085	The Estate of the Beckoning Lady (Albert Campion)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Look Who's Coming To Dinner	The Estate of the Beckoning Lady<br />Margery Allingham, having just written her most unnerving novel in \\"The Tiger in the Smoke\\" follows up with one of her most evanescent with \\"The Estate of the Beckoning Lady.\\" William Faraday (the `Uncle William' of  \\"Police at the Funeral\\" and \\"Dancers in Mourning\\") has died suddenly, shortly before Tonker and Minnie Cassands' annual garden party bash.  In the honor of both William and tradition the hosts are determined to go on.  The place is The Beckoning Lady, in the town of Pontisbright, birthplace of Amanda, Campion's wife (and site of \\"The Gyrth Chalice Mystery\\").<br />The plot is simplicity itself.  The body of a singularly unpopular tax agent is found in a ditch near The Beckoning Lady.  In pursuing this problem, Campion and Luke develop suspicions about Uncle William's death.  Possible murderers seem to be everywhere, with prime suspects being Minnie and Tonker (oh dear, I think I just gave away a pun) as well as the owners of a nearby estate that seem hell-bent on acquiring the Cassands' holdings.  Various villagers pitch in to offer support and advice, which is just as often confusing as it is helpful.<br />Everything, however, takes second place to the party.  Indeed, the reader will learn a great deal more about how to manage large scale galas than he or she will of strange British tax laws and deadly pharmacological combinations.  This is the biggest day of the year for many of the participants and all are determined to carry on regardless.  This creates all the complications and distractions any mystery fan could hope for.<br />Prepare for first or second meetings with many delightful characters.  Campion, Amanda, Luke and Lugg are there, and Campion's son Rupert makes several startling appearances.  On top of many of Margery Allingham's old characters, the Pontisbright villagers are each unique and jewel-like characterizations.  This is a charming set piece for which the readers are the real guests.  Settle down with some champers and ice cream and prepare for a treat!wn with some champers and ice cream and prepare for a treat!	2001-06-08
1967676:US	53082946	R290AMS8U92PSD	0745165109	531169085	The Beckoning Lady	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Look Who's Coming To Dinner	Margery Allingham, having just written her most unnerving novel in \\"The Tiger in the Smoke\\" follows up with one of her most evanescent with \\"The Estate of the Beckoning Lady.\\" William Faraday (the `Uncle William' of  \\"Police at the Funeral\\" and \\"Dancers in Mourning\\") has died suddenly, shortly before Tonker and Minnie Cassands' annual garden party bash.  In the honor of both William and tradition the hosts are determined to go on.  The place is The Beckoning Lady, in the town of Pontisbright, birthplace of Amanda, Campion's wife (and site of \\"The Gyrth Chalice Mystery\\").<br />The plot is simplicity itself.  The body of a singularly unpopular tax agent is found in a ditch near The Beckoning Lady.  In pursuing this problem, Campion and Luke develop suspicions about Uncle William's death.  Possible murderers seem to be everywhere, with prime suspects being Minnie and Tonker (oh dear, I think I just gave away a pun) as well as the owners of a nearby estate that seem hell-bent on acquiring the Cassands' holdings.  Various villagers pitch in to offer support and advice, which is just as often confusing as it is helpful.<br />Everything, however, takes second place to the party.  Indeed, the reader will learn a great deal more about how to manage large scale galas than he or she will of strange British tax laws and deadly pharmacological combinations.  This is the biggest day of the year for many of the participants and all are determined to carry on regardless.  This creates all the complications and distractions any mystery fan could hope for.<br />Prepare for first or second meetings with many delightful characters.  Campion, Amanda, Luke and Lugg are there, and Campion's son Rupert makes several startling appearances.  On top of many of Margery Allingham's old characters, the Pontisbright villagers are each unique and jewel-like characterizations.  This is a charming set piece for which the readers are the real guests.  Settle down with some champers and ice cream and prepare for a treat!d prepare for a treat!	2001-06-08
1974264:US	53082946	R2B0Y2NBJRJPTG	9997502876	531169085	The Estate of the Beckoning Lady/(English Title = the Beckoning Lady)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	And a Good Time Was Had by All	Margery Allingham, having just written her most unnerving novel in \\"The Tiger in the Smoke\\" follows up with one of her most evanescent with \\"The Estate of the Beckoning Lady.\\" William Faraday (the `Uncle William' of  \\"Police at the Funeral\\" and \\"Dancers in Mourning\\") has died suddenly, shortly before Tonker and Minnie Cassands' annual garden party bash.  In the honor of both William and tradition, the hosts are determined to go on.  The place is The Beckoning Lady, in the town of Pontisbright, birthplace of Amanda, Campion's wife (and site of \\"The Gyrth Chalice Mystery\\").<br />The plot is simplicity itself.  The body of a singularly unpopular tax agent is found in a ditch near The Beckoning Lady.  In pursuing this problem, Campion and Luke develop suspicions about Uncle William's death.  Possible murderers seem to be everywhere, with prime suspects being Minnie and Tonker (oh dear, I think I just gave away a pun) as well as the owners of a nearby estate that seem hell-bent on acquiring the Cassands' holdings.  Various villagers pitch in to offer support and advice, which is just as often confusing as it is helpful.<br />Everything, however, takes second place to the party.  Indeed, the reader will learn a great deal more about how to manage large scale galas than he or she will of strange British tax laws and deadly pharmacological combinations.  This is the biggest day of the year for many of the participants and all are determined to carry on regardless.  This creates all the complications and distractions any mystery fan could hope for.<br />Prepare for first or second meetings with many delightful characters.  Campion, Amanda, Luke and Lugg are there, and Campion's son Rupert makes several startling appearances.  On top of many of Margery Allingham's old characters, the Pontisbright villagers are each unique and jewel-like characterizations.  This is a charming set piece for which the readers are the real guests.  Settle down with some champers and ice cream and prepare for a treat!nd prepare for a treat!	2001-06-03
1974616:US	53082946	R1J98U43QJCDJ6	0380730367	240949428	Prayers for Rain (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Sins of the Fathers	I started \\"Prayers for Rain\\" with a great deal of trepidation.  I found Dennis Lehane's last novel, \\"Gone, Baby, Gone,\\" a great story, but totally emotionally exhausting.  I wasn't sure that I could handle another novel like that again on short notice.  So I waited a bit.  When I finally gave in and started to read it, I found myself completely spellbound.  If &quot;Gone, Baby, Gone&quot; sent Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro on a death spiral that left both shattered and destroyed their relationship, &quot;Prayers for Rain&quot; is the noir version of working your way back up.<br />Karen Nichols comes to Patrick Kenzie for help with a stalker.  Patrick, stirred out of his depression at his separation from Angela, calls on his friend Bubba, and they address the problem in their typical, violent fashion.  All appears well.  At least it does until Karen jumps naked to her death six months later.<br />Driven by a sense of responsibility, Kenzie looks into the suicide and discovers that Karen was carefully driven from being happy and successful to prostitution and complete character dissolution.  Somewhere, hidden behind layers of deception hides a psychotic monster that relishes the destruction of human psyches.  Joined with Bubba and reunited with Angela, Kenzie goes on the offensive, and quickly runs into violent opposition.<br />Faced with an opponent armed with seemingly inexhaustible resources, and outmaneuvered at almost every turn, our three musketeers find themselves in a running battle for their sanity and their lives.  Layer after layer of deception mask the killer and his plots, and Kenzie and Gennaro must dig deep to find the right answers.  The action is fast paced and violent, and the complex cat-and-mouse game provides fascinating interest.<br />Bubba, the sociopathic gunrunner, plays a far larger part in &quot;Prayers for Rain&quot; then he has in previous novels.  Still not fully developed, he plays a vital part in the action and in helping to resolve the tensions between the main characters.  His motivations are unexpected, and sometimes horrific, but he provides an unusual model of loyalty and friendship.  By the time the novel is done, the reader will find he or she has developed a wary affection for Bubba, and a deeper respect for Kenzie and Gennaro.<br />This is one of Lehane's masterpieces.  Truly worthwhile reading.ve the tensions between the main characters.  His motivations are unexpected, and sometimes horrific, but he provides an unusual model of loyalty and friendship.  By the time the novel is done, the reader will find he or she has developed a wary affection for Bubba, and a deeper respect for Kenzie and Gennaro.  <br />This is one of Lehane's masterpieces.  Truly worthwhile reading.	2001-06-03
1974671:US	53082946	R1TO63L7VNPJ8N	0743406990	367547265	Soul Trade (ANGEL)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Soul of a Child	This has been a happy time of year for Buffy and Angel addicts.  New novels keep appearing about both heroes, and even a new series starring both.  Now, turning this surfeit into an embarrassment of riches, comes yet another foray into Angel&#8217;s Los Angeles, written by Thomas Sniegoski, noted for his comic book narratives.<br />When Doyle has a vision of a young girl under attack, Angel and his team speed to the site.  In a calm, suburban neighborhood they find a comatose child and her distraught mother.  When hospital staff is unable to discover what has happened to little Aubrey Bentone, but Angel fears the worst.  A small container, dropped by the assailant, provides a vital clue.  The soul of an innocent child has tremendous value in the underworld, and someone has ripped Aubrey&#8217;s from her once vibrant body.<br />Angel, Cordelia and Doyle race against death or worse, for they must restore the child&#8217;s soul before the empty shell left behind withers and dies.  For Angel, haunted by visions of his young sister, a victim of his vengeful hunger centuries before, the search becomes a personal quest for redemption.  Doyle struggles to come to terms with his demonic nature.  And, on the lighter side, Cordelia struggles to make ends meet while taking on a master magician, countless homunculi, and a very, very overweight demon who is the last of his soul-eating kind.<br />Sniegowski starts out a bit slowly, but then catches fire as he develops his characters and tells the story of the innocent child who is the victim of the predators.  Dialog is well crafted, and &#8220;Soul Trade&#8221; has a dimensionality which is often lacking in this kind of fiction.  Once into the story I was unable to keep from reading the novel in a single sitting (well, I did take a break for lunch).  This author displays considerable talent, and I hope we see more from him soon.	2001-06-03
1975241:US	53082946	R2FX8LUTEVJAHP	0786707194	830063659	The Tiger in the Smoke (Allingham, Margery)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Gone for Soldiers Everyone	Meg Eginbrodde has cause to be upset.  On the eve of her wedding to Geoffrey Levett photographs of her first husband, who died in the war, suddenly start turning up.  Someone wants her to think Martin Elginbrodde is still alive, and she doesn't know what to do.  At a loss, Meg and Geoffrey turn to Albert Campion and Charlie Luke to help solve the problem.  Campion and Luke are sure that Martin is dead, but they don't understand why someone is bent on proving otherwise.  First an actor dies, then Geoffrey disappears, then a series of brutal killings points to someone who is desperately seeking information that Martin left for his wife before he died.<br />The police discover that the killer is escaped convict Jack Havoc, a sociopath who believes in the science of luck; heartless, intelligent and deadly.  Havoc is assisted by a motley crew of war veterans, who are every bit as terrifying as Havoc himself.  The investigation becomes a desperate race against time, as Campion tries to outwit a criminal who is every bit as sharp as he is.<br />&quot;The Tiger in the Smoke&quot; is an entirely different Margery Allingham story than we are used to.  In the ever-present fog, the genial good humor and comedic sense of other Campion stories evaporate.  Instead, we find ourselves confronting larger issues of good and evil, personified by Canon Hubert Avril (Campion's uncle) and the diabolic Mr. Havoc.  One cannot help but compare Havoc's artificial family of ex-soldiers welded together by fear and distrust with the easy interplay amongst the characters that stand with Canon Avril, a man who refuses to lie.<br />Avril, Luke and, for that matter, Havoc have larger roles than Campion does, which has not happened since \\"Crime at the Black Dudley.\\"  But the key character is Margery Allingham herself, whose own character and beliefs are the moving force behind the story.  In &quot;The Tiger in the Smoke&quot; she demonstrates a great deal of depth that has hitherto been disguised.  Expect something different and unnerving.  This is a far cry from her previous work, and will always stand out as one of the most exceptional works of an exceptional writer.d.  Expect something different and unnerving.  This is a far cry from her previous work, and will always stand out as one of the most exceptional works of an exceptional writer.	2001-06-02
1975506:US	53082946	RW1ET1D3DR0D6	0399147284	853678814	Chosen Prey	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Dramatic Game of Cat and Mouse	After reading &#8220;Easy Prey&#8221; last year, I suspected that John Sandford&#8217;s interest in his series about Lucas Davenport, the Minneapolis Deputy Chief of Police, was flagging.  While by no means a bad novel, &#8220;Easy Prey&#8221; lacked the excitement and vigor that I was so used to Sandford delivering.<br />I am pleased to announce that any perceivable waning of Sandford&#8217;s interest or writing abilities was purely a temporary aberration.  &#8220;Chosen Prey&#8221; is both a fine police procedural and a great serial killer read.  Sandford reveals the killer right at the beginning of the novel, which is not my favorite plot device.  But he pulls it off in notable fashion, somehow creating enough space between the killer&#8217;s tale and Davenport&#8217;s efforts to solve the crime so that both stories unfold without detracting from each other.<br />Lucas Davenport first becomes involved in the case when a strangling victim is accidentally discovered, and Qatar&#8217;s drawings of the victim are connected to several cases where similar drawings have been used as harassment.  Smelling trouble, he pursues the lead and discovers that the drawings have turned up elsewhere.  He connects with a detective from nearby Dunn County and they discover that the gravesite of the first victim was only one of a field of graves.  Davenport marshals his coworkers in a manhunt that always seems to be one step behind the deft moves of the killer.  Lucas begins to suspect he has met his match.<br />The two threads gracefully intertwine.  As Qatar vacillates between fulfilling his desires and evading detection, Davenport&#8217;s investigation picks up or bogs down in frustrating red herrings.  The little art historian is not particularly sympathetic, but he is a fascinating study.  The silent cat-and-mouse game between Lucas and Qatar provides endless suspense.  The reader is confronted with a case in which both opponents make perfect moves.  Will this be a deadly stalemate?  Is it possible that James Qatar will walk away?  John Sandford plays his hands perfectly, giving no hint of the resolution until it unfolds before the reader.  Prepare for a novel full of surprising turns.  &#8220;Chosen Prey&#8221; is one of the best of this genre I&#8217;ve read in a long time.lemate?  Is it possible that James Qatar will walk away?  John Sandford plays his hands perfectly, giving no hint of the resolution until it unfolds before the reader.  Prepare for a novel full of surprising turns.  &#8220;Chosen Prey&#8221; is one of the best of this genre I&#8217;ve read in a long time.	2001-06-02
1980923:US	53082946	R3AIGD0DTVNZPQ	0441007309	866601457	Dark Sleeper: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	If Dickens Wrote Horror Stories	One of the impacts of twentieth century culture on the art of novel writing has been an increased emphasis on the importance of plot.  In my more sarcastic moments I blame this on the rise of the cowboy movie.  We have become adventure story addicts, and are perplexed when something doesn't happen in every paragraph.  In earlier years, plots were sometimes less developed, but emphasis was primarily on characters, dialog and description, i.e., on the power and beauty of the language itself.  Too often, best selling books consist of nothing more than stick figure characters mouthing predictable verbiage as they run from event to event on a two-dimensional stage.  These can still be fun to read, and there is such a thing as a well-written adventure story, but I sometimes miss the carefully crafted prose of our greatest storytellers.<br />Fortunately, there are always authors who buck the trend.  Recently, China Mieville stands out, with \\"Perdido Street Station\\" and \\"King Rat.\\"  Now another new face has appeared, Jeffrey Barlough, whose first work, \\"Dark Sleeper,\\" is a tour-de-force of finely styled writing.  Mr. Barlough, through his service as an editor or older English writing, has a delightful facility with prose, which he has used to concoct a story that is both horror story and lugubrious farce.  Imagine, if you will, that \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" had been co-written Charles Dickens and H. P. Lovecraft.<br />\\"Dark Sleeper\\" is hardly lacking in plot.  Set in an alternate earth where the cataclysmic strike of a comet triggered an ice age during the 18th Century.  The world is a wasteland, surrounding a narrow band where civilization managed to hang on.  The story takes place in the prosperous town of Salthead `an ocean and a continent' away from where France used to be.  It is now three hundred years or more since the cataclysm, but for all practical purposes it is still the 18th Century.  Carriages are horse drawn, and candles light the night.  Other than a single, silver pocket watch there is no evidence of mechanization.  Guns do not exist.  The wilderness has reverted, and forests now abound with giant mammoths and saber-toothed tigers.<br />Unexpectedly, Salthead finds itself haunted by the supernatural.  An undead sailor wanders the streets and a ghost ship arises from the ocean.  An ill-tempered mastiff becomes a creature from hell.  There are rumors that a wizard has moved into the city and demonic figures are seen on cliff tops.  Professor Titus Tiggs and his companion Dr. Daniel Dampe are determined to investigate.  They come, via a harrowing carriage ride through the mountains to the village of Pease Pottage and the Eaton Wafers estate.  There they uncover the roots of a terrible secret that has unleashed a nightmare from ancient times.  Salthead and its environs is threatens by an immortal cultist who is determines to reinstate the time of ancient Italy, filling the world with the spirits of dead Etruscans.<br />All this makes for a dandy plot.  But what makes the book special is the author a great deal of time elaborating on the characters, their foibles and faults, and the rich fantasy landscape in which the action takes place.  Subplots are introduced and worked to satisfactory conclusions in a novel clearly intended to survive more than one reading.  There is already a second volume in preparation for the series.  \\"Dark Sleeper\\" may not be for everyone, but I believe that it will greatly reward those readers who enjoy such entertainments.ilver pocket watch there is no evidence of mechanization.  Guns do not exist.  The wilderness has reverted, and forests now abound with giant mammoths and saber-toothed tigers.<br />Unexpectedly, Salthead finds itself haunted by the supernatural.  An undead sailor wanders the streets and a ghost ship arises from the ocean.  An ill-tempered mastiff becomes a creature from hell.  There are rumors that a wizard has moved into the city and demonic figures are seen on cliff tops.  Professor Titus Tiggs and his companion Dr. Daniel Dampe are determined to investigate.  They come, via a harrowing carriage ride through the mountains to the village of Pease Pottage and the Eaton Wafers estate.  There they uncover the roots of a terrible secret that has unleashed a nightmare from ancient times.  Salthead and its environs is threatens by an immortal cultist who is determines to reinstate the time of ancient Italy, filling the world with the spirits of dead Etruscans.<br />All this makes for a dandy plot.  But what makes the book special is the author a great deal of time elaborating on the characters, their foibles and faults, and the rich fantasy landscape in which the action takes place.  Subplots are introduced and worked to satisfactory conclusions in a novel clearly intended to survive more than one reading.  There is already a second volume in preparation for the series.  \\"Dark Sleeper\\" may not be for everyone, but I believe that it will greatly reward those readers who enjoy such entertainments.	2001-05-29
1984461:US	53082946	R5W2G91ZM37GN	0380978849	701835154	Lord of the Silent	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Stop the War!  The Emersons Are Back!	Once again Elizabeth Peters invites her fans to follow the antics of the Emerson family as they follow dual careers as Egypt's foremost archeologists and criminal investigators.  Trouble seems to follow both the older Emersons and Egyptology's newest couple, Ramses and Nefret.  Nor should I fail to mention Sennia (the illegitimate daughter of Ramses' infamous cousin), Gargary (the butler), and several families of Egyptian who provide faithful service to the Emerson's during their annual excavations.<br />Undaunted by the war raging around them, the Emerson clan returns to Egypt for the 1915 season.  Amelia and Radcliffe are worried that Ramses will once again be drawn into secret service work (see \\"He Shall Thunder in the Sky\\").  To prevent this they concoct a plot to get Ramses and Nefret away from Cairo.  Ramses is sent to investigate rumors of increased tomb robbery in Thebes due to the wartime atmosphere.  No sooner are Ramses and Nefret under way then the older Emerson's are attacked and an unexpected corpse shows up at their excavation.<br />Nor do things go well for Nefret and Ramses.  While attempting to inspect a tomb, someone dumps half a hill side and yet another corpse on the young couple.  Their investigations point to the presence of a new master tomb robber operating in Thebes.  Or is it two factions of thieves battling each other?  Or, worst of all, has Sethos somehow risen from the grave to return to his nefarious habits?  To find out more you will have to read the book, my lips are sealed.<br />I always have mixed feelings when reading one of the Emerson novels.  The writing is good, there is a great level of suspense, and plenty of enjoyable comedy.  But at some point in every novel I realize that the older Emerson's are truly impossible people.  They are arrogant, conceited, and often condescending when dealing with those of us that work for a living.  When they are confronted with disagreement they can be astonishingly rude.  Ramses, as a child, was a truly obnoxious brat, but as a married young man he has mellowed considerably.  He and Nefret now provide a refreshing contrast with the antics of their parents.<br />Inevitably, I overcome my reaction and go on enjoying the book.  But I am still waiting for the day when Amelia finally admits to an error.  Newcomers to the Peters' Emerson saga may want to start up with an earlier volume, perhaps \\"The Ape Who Guards the Balance\\" or even as far back as \\"Seeing a Large Cat.\\"  \\"Lord of the Silent\\" provides too little background explanation to be completely enjoyable as a first novel.  Faithful fans will, of course, be delighted as usual.was a truly obnoxious brat, but as a married young man he has mellowed considerably.  He and Nefret now provide a refreshing contrast with the antics of their parents.<br />Inevitably, I overcome my reaction and go on enjoying the book.  But I am still waiting for the day when Amelia finally admits to an error.  Newcomers to the Peters' Emerson saga may want to start up with an earlier volume, perhaps \\"The Ape Who Guards the Balance\\" or even as far back as \\"Seeing a Large Cat.\\"  \\"Lord of the Silent\\" provides too little background explanation to be completely enjoyable as a first novel.  Faithful fans will, of course, be delighted as usual.	2001-05-26
1986264:US	53082946	R3R921OIDZ7UE0	1899562850	525942049	The Talisman	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;Babylon is Become the Habitation of  Devils&quot;	Having recently read and reviewed Aycliffe's \\"A Shadow on the Wall,\\" I was interested in investigating more of Aycliffe's horror work.  A friend of mine came to the rescue and produced a very nicely bound and presented version of the text.  For the record, the text is the same in the 'unlimited' edition, which, unfortunately for those of us on smaller budgets, is just about has hard to find.<br />Thomas and Nicola Alston, recently moved to London with their son Adam, have set up living in a fine old house previously owned by Peter Lazenby.  Lazenby had an excellent reputation as an archeologist, but was also noted for a fondness for female undergraduates and wierd rituals.  Tom Alston has taken a position at the British Museum where he runs into and old friend, Edward Monelli.  Monelli's wife recently died at a dig in Babylon, and he has returned home grieving, with her last, very unusual find.  It is a very ancient statue of Shabbatil, who was the prototype for legends of Satan and other equally unpleasant netherworld characters.<br />In no time at all, Alston discovers that there is some tie between Shabbatil and the spirit of Lazenby, and that something strange is happening to Adam.  When Monelli shows up dead, Alston moves the statue to the Museum, but it is far too late.  Atmospheric tension builds as children fall victim to demonic possession, and a plague of blindness begins to afflict the populace.  Specters of evil and the dead haunt Tom's family, and this is just the beginning.  Alston and his wife seem caught up in a whirlwind as they struggle to find some way to overcome Shabbatil's baleful influence.<br />It is impossible to resist the tale of pre-Babylonian evil, full of eerie chants, amulets and ghosts.  Even though the demonic possession plot has been a bit overused in the last decade or so (blame it on Buffy), Aycliffe does a good job of weaving traditional and original elements together to make a strong tale.  \\"The Talisman\\" is not as tightly written as \\"A Shadow on the Wall\\" though, and some errors are introduced because Tom, the usual narrator, sometimes steps out of his role to comment on another part of the tale.  Otherwise, this is as good a ghost story as you might want to read.en as \\"A Shadow on the Wall\\" though, and some errors are introduced because Tom, the usual narrator, sometimes steps out of his role to comment on another part of the tale.  Otherwise, this is as good a ghost story as you might want to read.	2001-05-24
1986531:US	53082946	R128HUUH8382NO	0441006000	849173598	The Godmother's WeB	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	In Peace Let It Be Finished	\\"The Godmother's Web\\" is the third in a series of godmother novels penned by Elizabeth Scarborough.  Cindy Ellis, who appeared in the original \\"Godmother\\", has become a bit disenchanted with her relationship to Raydir Quantrill, the king of Alloy Rock.  When Raydir leaves for a road trip Cindy decides she needs some time to think things out and tacks a job training a trail horse by riding it through the wilder parts of Arizona.<br />Cindy's first indication that the trip was not going to go according to plan was when she picked up an older American Indian woman whom everyone called Grandmother.  Shortly thereafter, Cindy discovers that her hitchhiker had a slightly different voyage in mind and had no intention of letting Cindy get rid of her easily.  Grandmother seems to be concerned about the pain and anger caused among the Hopi and Navaho by a recent land partition.  By no means a political activist, Grandmother is intent on providing wisdom to her many grandchildren.<br />Among her extended family we will find Carl Loloma, a drug counselor, his daughter Sela, and her boyfriend Wiley Smiley.  Also playing major parts are Michael Blackgoat, on a quest for a horse, Dr. Maria Chee, who has come back to the reservation to help her people, and Alice and Martha Tsosie, two sisters who are split over how to deal with land partition.<br />I shouldn't leave out an ill-intentioned Navaho witch, several representatives of a power company who intend to take advantage of the political situation to advance their own cause, and some other unpleasant `bad guys.'  Confronted with inter-tribal anger and misunderstanding, horse theft, witchcraft and assassination, Grandmother has her work cut out for her.<br />Not only does Scarborough write one of her best tales ever; she shows a grasp of Hopi and Navaho culture that is truly astounding.  She weaves legend, myth, culture and politics into the story without missing a step and never lets the story get bogged down by all the details.  I learnt as much about these to American Indian cultures in a book intended for entertainment as I have reading books on the same subject.  Because of this excellent mix of story and cross-cultural information I would recommend \\"The Godmother's Web\\" for everyone, young and old, short and tall.ls.  I learnt as much about these to American Indian cultures in a book intended for entertainment as I have reading books on the same subject.  Because of this excellent mix of story and cross-cultural information I would recommend \\"The Godmother's Web\\" for everyone, young and old, short and tall.	2001-05-24
1987402:US	53082946	R3HINCH6N20N80	0944092845	217173058	The Architect's Brother	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Who Is My Brothers Keeper?	Robert ParkeHarrison is an outstanding photographer, who creates disturbing images from photographs using sculpture, painting and aspects of theater to produce a surreal image.  He appears in every photograph, acting as explorer, victim and conjurer performing actions that evoke a sense of ritual and metaphor, and frequently leave the viewer dazzled.<br />His is a magical world, lightning strikes, huge flowers explode and clouds and dark holes spin across the horizon.  This is a mystical world that recalls to me the world of the major arcana of the Tarot.  The figure vacillates between Mage, Fool and Hierophant.  Who is the Architect, I wonder.  Is his brother an assistant or an opponent?  Many of the images are ambivalent, touching on both darkness and light, making a clear decision impossible.  The figure seems melancholy, engaged in strange almost hopeless acts.  But he persists, carrying on a quest intended to heal or repair a desolate world.<br />Despite a great difference in subject matter, these images remind me a great deal of Joel Peter Witkin, who is another Twin Palms photographer.  Witkin's images also evoke a sense of myth and legend and have many readings.  Both photographers manipulate their images extensively (with their wives as co-conspirators as well).  And both have wonderful imaginations that seem to flourish against the somewhat humdrum backdrop of today's world.<br />A slipcased, signed edition exists, but is becoming quite rare.  This edition and the trade edition are beautifully produced by Twin Palms, who manage to capture the real spirit of this work.  By all means buy the \\"The Architect's Brother\\" if you are interested in non-traditional photography.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-05-23
1991941:US	53082946	R2KQVT67LKCRAL	0449005739	558468694	The London Vampire Panic	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Just When I Though I Had Vampires Figured Out!	Michael Romkey has been a successful vampire chronicler for some time now.  For some unknown reason I have never picked up one of his tales before \\"The London Vampire Panic.\\"  In any case, led on by the blurb on the back, which made the book sound like a Dracula reprise, I decided to try it out.  To my surprise, Romkey has written something that is quite a bit more than what I expected, with a very intriguing viewpoint about the nature of the vampire.<br />On the surface, \\"The London Vampire Panic\\" is indeed modeled after \\"Dracula.\\"  Six men, American and British gentlemen, are led through London by Dr. Abraham Van Helsing on a quest to stop an incursion of vampires from becoming a plague.  Both noble and commoner alike are threatened as vampires attack, sometimes secretively and sometimes in plain sight.  The trail leads through poverty stricken streets, to graveyards and autopsy rooms.  Disraeli and Prince Albert are fear that law and order will break down if this evil is not stopped.<br />As in \\"Dracula\\" the story is told from multiple viewpoints.  The first narrator, Dr. Posthumous Blackley, is a young rake who represents the worst of Victorian immorality.  While he is a good narrator, his constant focus on sexual escapades gives his description of the adventures of the vampire hunters a strong flavor of social commentary.  When, a bit later, we get to read the testimony of a young prostitute who had been made a vampire, we are treated to more revelations about the underbelly of genteel society.<br />But, for the most part, this is a vampire story, not an expose.  Romkey seems unwilling to use the cliches typical of most vampire stories, so the story takes many intriguing twists.  His creatures are both more sympathetic and more terrifying for their surprising and exceptional qualities.  On the whole, I found \\"The London Vampire Panic\\" a welcome change from standard vampire fare.  But traditionalists beware! Romkey provides both exciting narrative and food for thought.hought.	2001-05-20
1992397:US	53082946	RT1O5HKU8SR5V	0312874766	74115197	Domain	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ancient Aliens Threaten Humanity - Again	I very much enjoyed Steve Alten's first novel, \\"Meg,\\" but found its sequel \\"The Trench\\" a bit lackluster.  \\"Domain\\" is Alten's next effort, intended to be the first of three volumes, and finds the author heading out on a new tack.  Taking ancient Mayan mythology, a pastiche of archeological mysteries, and enough `visiting alien' theories to rival \\"Chariot of the Gods,\\" Alten weaves an adventure tale straight out if \\"X-files\\" and \\"Area 51.\\"  Unfortunately, much of this is presented as fact to the reader, rather than theory.  This impacts the book's believability for those of use who have a more skeptical turn of mind.  I don't mind Alten using alien theories as plot devices, but I am suspicious of the energy he spends `selling' these ideas to the reader.<br />\\"Domain\\" is really two parallel stories.  The first focuses on Mick Gabriel, locked in an asylum after the humiliation and death of his father at the hands of rival Pierre Borgia.  This causes Mick to become violent and seriously injure Pierre.  Borgia is now Secretary of State, and has no intention of permitting Mick's release.  Mick is convinced that ancient aliens have set the world up to end on December 21, 2012, the winter solstice.<br />Convinced the Mick is not dangerously insane and half-believing Mick's theories, Dominique Vazquez, his psychologist struggles to free him.  Finally, having engineered his escape, Mick and Dominique head off to investigate strange happenings at the bottom of the sea and on the plains of Mexico and Peru.  Their race against the clock puts them at odds with the authorities of several countries, aliens, normal citizens, and, sometimes, each other.<br />The second of Alten's tales is the journal of Mick's father, which retells his life-long quest to discover the mysteries locked up in the Pyramids, Angkor Wat and Chichen Itza.  This is heady stuff, mixing truth and fantasy in classic alien theory fashion.  I'm not sure if Alten believes this material or not, but he makes every effort to be convincing.  Separating the novel's story from the archeologist's tale helps Alten avoid bogging down the story with a lot of explanation.<br />My most serious problem with Alten's book is that many of his premises are treated as fact rather than surmise based on assumptions.  Most of the things that Alten believes are impossible for humans are actually well within our capabilities.  We have known how the pyramids were built for some time now, and it wasn't aliens, but simple, good engineering.  The mystery isn't how these things were done, but why.  I do believe in the possibility of aliens, and can accepting that they might very well have visited us, but we don't need to call on them to explain some of our greatest accomplishments.<br />Alten does a bang up job of crafting the tale and he has researched his material carefully.  This is a genuinely fun story, and Alten does a good job telling it.  It has more meat to it than a lot of this sort of fiction, and even the most incredulous will find much of interest.  I'm looking forward to the next volumes.ry effort to be convincing.  Separating the novel's story from the archeologist's tale helps Alten avoid bogging down the story with a lot of explanation.  <br />My most serious problem with Alten's book is that many of his premises are treated as fact rather than surmise based on assumptions.  Most of the things that Alten believes are impossible for humans are actually well within our capabilities.  We have known how the pyramids were built for some time now, and it wasn't aliens, but simple, good engineering.  The mystery isn't how these things were done, but why.  I do believe in the possibility of aliens, and can accepting that they might very well have visited us, but we don't need to call on them to explain some of our greatest accomplishments. <br />Alten does a bang up job of crafting the tale and he has researched his material carefully.  This is a genuinely fun story, and Alten does a good job telling it.  It has more meat to it than a lot of this sort of fiction, and even the most incredulous will find much of interest.  I'm looking forward to the next volumes.	2001-05-20
1993100:US	53082946	R1UZ4EEVF5BNC8	0891901809	386671526	More Work for the Undertaker	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Going Up Apron Street	The Palinode clan defies description.  They are extraordinarily bright and eccentric, there are a fair number of them (siblings Evadne, Lawrence and Miss Jessica, plus niece Clytie) and they are extremely poor.  They live in the old Palinode home as tenants of Renee Roper, its new owner and an old pal of Campion's.  And, for no apparent reason, someone seems to be trying to kill them off.  Campion, to the rescue as always, moves into Renee's boarding house, while Lugg, his factotum, moves in with Jas Bowels the undertaker down the road.<br />Subplots abound.  The police suspect something is rotten in Apron Street, but aren't sure what.  A coffin belonging to Bowels and his son keeps appearing and disappearing, a pharmacist dies unexpectedly and Clytie's boyfriend takes a hard bash on the noggin.  Confusion is endemic and the Palinodes sit at the center of the storm calmly writing crossword puzzles and cooking recipes from a book entitled \\"How to Live on One-and Six.\\"<br />Even though murder is a grim subject, Margery Allingham once again manages to turn it into a perfect comedy of manners.  \\"More Work for the Undertaker\\" will have you snickering as the antics of the Bowels and struggling to understand Palinode quips.  Nowadays there is altogether too much noir fiction.  It's a great relief to settle down with one of Allingham's lighter novels and return to a London as far away as Alice's Wonderland.<br />A special treat in this novel is the first appearance of Charlie Luke, a Divisional Detective Inspector, as Campion's partner in detection.  Now that Stanislaus Oates has become old, important, and a bit stuffy, Allingham seizes the moment to introduce Luke. His bluff and animated personality is a perfect contrast with Campion's.  He will go on to be a regular in Allingham's stories from now on, taking his place with Lugg and Amanda.	2001-05-19
1993647:US	53082946	R3MS6BDNFY2S1M	3822881805	446962107	New York Girls	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Fetish As a State of Mind	At first glance it is tempting to see Richard Kern as an imitator of Eric Kroll.  This is hardly the case, but the comparison is inevitable.  Both are New York photographers who specialize in fetish work, primarily photographing women.  Both have a good sense of graphic imagery.  In truth, though, the similarities end at the surface.  Their intent and approach are radically different.<br />Kroll has a strong background in commercial and fashion photography which gives his images a more glitzy, mainstream look.  Kern came to New York and immediately fell in with the extreme sex crowd.  He spent his early years publishing little, Xeroxed magazines and making short films with such dark stars as Lydia Lunch, Nick Zedd and Cassandra Stark.  In a sense, \\"New York Girls,\\" marks a shift closer to mainstream fetish work.<br />These are harsh, revealing images.  His color work reminds me a bit of Nan Goldin, but his black and white images are uniquely his own.  The sexuality is blatant, sometimes erotic and sometimes not.  There is a profound alienation in his images.  These are people being sexual to and for themselves.  They rarely meet the viewer's eyes.  When they do face the camera it is to issue a challenge, to dare the viewer to cross the line into a solipsistic universe of tension and release.<br />Many of the photographs are haunting.  There seem to be layers of content that keep the viewer's attention for hours.  If you haven't encountered Kern's work before or a looking for the right collection of fetish work you will find this and excellent introduction to photography's more challenging visions.	2001-05-19
1993985:US	53082946	R12XWGJYYS1RCD	074341893X	503957289	Unseen: The Burning (Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel Series) (Bk. 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fighting a War on Two Fronts	What a treat!  No sooner did I finish &quot;Book of the Fours&quot; when yet another Buffy thriller by Nancy Holder appears.  &quot;Unseen: The Burning&quot; is co-written with Jeff Mariotte, who has crafted several Angel novels.  They have teamed up to write the exciting first volume of a trilogy where Buffy and Angel must work in tandem for the first time since Angel left for Los Angeles.  The novels will be set in relatively recent Buffy history (just pre-Dawn).<br />In Sunnydale: Salma de la Navidad's younger brother Nicky has disappeared,  Leaving behind several books that the reader will recognized as seriously bad magic.  Terrified that something horrible has happened she turns to Buffy and Willow for help.  At the same time, Giles, pursuing his new hobby of listening to the police radio band, realizes that a fresh horror has moved into town, something that lurks in the shadows and can totally Cuisinart its victims.  Buffy suspects the cases are related, but the solution eludes her.  Following Nicky's trail leads her eventually to Los Angeles as the source of the mystery.  Angel's territory.<br />In Los Angeles: Cordelia discovers a group of runaway girls living under the library that are anxiously looking forward to becoming vampires and feels compelled to help.  Meanwhile Angel is drawn into helping Isabel Flores and her son Carlos.  The boy's father has been arrested for a crime he did not commit and suddenly a poltergeist is haunting the Flores family.<br />The more Angel and Buffy press, the more all these strange cases seem to be interrelated. As the threads become entangled they find themselves and their friends headed on a collision course with a hungry evil that reaches out invisibly from the darkness.  &quot;The Burning&quot; introduces enough complication to last for even more than a trilogy.  Expect quite a bit of fun before the mysteries are resolved.<br />The relationships between Willow and Tara, and between Buffy and Riley are dealt with in these novels for the first time.  The writers don't yet seem totally comfortable with either of the new characters, but Tara is portrayed a bit more sympathetically than Riley.  Holder and Mariotte overplay Riley and Tara's weaker character traits, though, which makes the relationships seem artificial. Hopefully this will take care of itself in later volumes.  This detracts a bit from the book's overall rating, but not enough to cost it a star - yet.ese novels for the first time.  The writers don't yet seem totally comfortable with either of the new characters, but Tara is portrayed a bit more sympathetically than Riley.  Holder and Mariotte overplay Riley and Tara's weaker character traits, though, which makes the relationships seem artificial. Hopefully this will take care of itself in later volumes.  This detracts a bit from the book's overall rating, but not enough to cost it a star - yet.	2001-05-18
1996674:US	53082946	RPVB0ZFLUJYO4	0886773865	125534191	Gate of Darkness, Circle of Light	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Trouble in Toronto	Rebecca, who is mildly [handicapped], is on of the nicest young women you will ever meet.  Despite her handicap, she has a rich life with a job and many friends.  And, she can see the wee folk.  So it is with great horror that she finds that the little man who lived in the tree next to her apartment has been killed with a ritual knife.  Unsure of what to do, she goes to Roland, a street musician and bard-in-training for help.  Together, they go to Mrs. Ruth, the bag lady, who understands these things.  The little man, they discover, has been slain by an adept of Darkness, recently crossed over from the shadow world.<br />Mrs. Ruth realizes that their only hope of defending this world from the adept is to send a message to the Light asking for help in restoring the balance.  When Evantarin, Adept of the Light, arrives in tight jeans, earrings, tee shirt and a happy face button (yes, I said a happy face button), the adventure begins.  There are more characters, such as Daru, Rebecca&#8217;s social worker and Tom, a very special cat.  A ghost, the usual minions of evil, and two bewildered police officers.  If the world cannot be brought into balance it will fall under the Dark, triggering the kind of battle between Light and Dark which leaves neither side very satisfied and our plane pretty much destroyed.<br />&#8220;Gate of Darkness, Circle of Light,&#8221; written in 1989, is fairly early Tanya Huff.  Not only is it very good in it&#8217;s own right, it also foreshadows much of her later work, especially the Summoner series.  Huff takes a fairly common fantasy plot device and turns it into a novel and engaging tale.  Rebecca and Roland are unlikely heroes, but soon our heart goes out to them as they team up with a very unusual crew to save the world.  Huff&#8217;s characters keep up an ironic yet gentle banter that quickly wins the reader over.  We are drawn in and can do little but go with the flow of the story, laughing with the characters, and sharing their pain as well.  These are not perfect people, taken individually.  But as a whole, they are a delightful metaphor for something very fine.as well.  These are not perfect people, taken individually.  But as a whole, they are a delightful metaphor for something very fine.	2001-05-16
1997869:US	53082946	R24XGGW7WQY95B	0899684548	648513810	The Fashion in Shrouds	Books	5	18	18	N	N	How to Dress for Murder	The delightful tale finds Albert Campion working his way through a Chinese puzzle of fashion designers, theatrical and entertainment people trying to solve the disappearance and death of the son of a friend.  Richard Portland-Smith, a successful attorney, engaged to the beautiful actress Georgia Wells, disappeared without a trace several years ago, and his remains have finally been found by Campion, apparently having committed suicide.  Campion gets the help of his sister, Val, a well-known designer, in meeting the actress, hoping to unravel the reason for Richard's death.<br />Instead, Campion is drawn into the glittery world of high fashion and theater, where appearances are often confused with reality.  When Georgia's husband Sir Raymond Ramillies dies under suspicious circumstances Val is implicated and Albert goes into high gear.  He uncovers one ugly secret after another, but the pieces never seem to quite fit together.  Motives such as blackmail, greed, drugs and jealousy all abound but Campion is unable to pinpoint a suspect who has both means and opportunity.<br />This is one of Allingham's longest novels, and certainly is the most complex.  It provides glimpses into London's fashion and theatrical world as well as some shattering demonstrations of the prejudices and flaws of the Great Britain's rich and famous.  Written in 1938, the book reflects the morality of the times.  A sensitive reader may find some statements that are, to put it mildly, politically incorrect.  These are unfortunate, and provide an insight into the thinking of the upper classes on either side of the Atlantic, but should not be permitted to detract from the overall quality of the novel.<br />One of the special delights of this novel is the reappearance of Amanda Fitton, heroine of the &quot;The Gyrth Chalice Mystery.&quot;  She comes to Albert, seeking help, after a hiatus of six years, and manages to become engaged to him in the space of one evening.  She becomes Campion's loyal, if irreverent, assistant and very nearly steals the whole novel.  Lugg also gets in his share of grumping and grousing.  &quot;The Fashion in Shrouds&quot; is one of Allingham's best, serving up mystery, humor, suspense and social commentary in great big, heaping doses.if irreverent, assistant and very nearly steals the whole novel.  Lugg also gets in his share of grumping and grousing.  &quot;The Fashion in Shrouds&quot; is one of Allingham's best, serving up mystery, humor, suspense and social commentary in great big, heaping doses.	2001-05-16
2000076:US	53082946	R199WY1Z49Z926	0967450381	378632041	Dark Chant in a Crimson Key	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Plot and Counterplot	Over the years Robert `Mongo' Frederickson and his brother Garth have built a successful detective agency and a global reputation.  Naturally, they are expensive, and Mongo is perplexed when Emmet Neuberger, head of the Cornucopia Foundation decides he wants to send Mongo to Switzerland to follow up on an embezzlement case.<br />An international terrorist and super-criminal known as Chant Sinclair has found a way to trick the Foundation out of ten million dollars.  Both the Swiss police and Interpol are already on the case.  Because Chant has baffled authorities since defecting from the CIA in Viet Nam, several intelligence agencies are stirring also the pot.  To Mongo, there seems to be no benefit in sending him into the mix, just to report on how the other enforcement agencies are doing.  He smells a rat, but is lured by the idea of spending some cuddle time with girlfriend Harper in the Swiss Alps.<br />No sooner does Mongo arrive but what seems to be a simple embezzlement turns into a catastrophe of murder and violence.  People associated with Chant keep dying horribly.  An attempt on Mongo's life turns into the slaughter of countless innocents.  The gunman's body is found to have a peculiar tattoo.  Mongo, under suspicion himself, decides to hunt down Chant and untangle the layers of mystery that surround him.  All of this is just the starting stanza of an incredibly tangle of events.<br />From its beginning, \\"Dark Chant in a Crimson Key\\" is pure intrigue, with a high violence quotient.  Nothing is quite what it seems.  Layers of agencies, foundations and secret organizations leave the reader's head spinning as Mongo tries to discover who is the real villain and who is the unsung hero.  This is a tightly told tale that moves quickly.  Chesbro's terse style keeps the reader's attention, and Mongo's tongue-in-cheek narration makes it all work.	2001-05-14
2000144:US	53082946	R2DYEGOEWW6ZRU	1570362882	870629115	The Unicorn Sonata	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Music of Innocence	Thirteen year old Josephine (`Joey') Rivera helps out part time at John Papas' music store in return for lessons.  When a young boy named Indigo walks into the store trying to sell a strange horn on which he can play wonderful haunting music Joey is entranced.  While John Papas cannot play the instrument Joey finds that she can.  But Indigo's price for the instrument is too high and Joey is left with only the memory of his song.  Several nights later, after visiting Abuelita, her grandmother, Joey hears the music again and follows it.  Suddenly she finds herself in a different world, Shei'rah, the home of the unicorns.<br />She meets Ko, a Satyr, who takes her to meet The Eldest, the nearly immortal unicorns, in an adventure we will never forget.  Shei'rah is a world of beauty and danger, and The Eldest, at it's heart, are the music of that world.  Gradually she learns their ways and of a blinding disease which is gradually destroying them.  Traveling back and forth across the border between our world and Shei'rah, Joey seeks to help heal the Unicorns and bring their music back.  \\"The Unicorn Sonata\\" is the story of her quest, told beautifully by Peter Beagle and illustrated by Robert Rodriguez.<br />Beagle is the author of \\"The Last Unicorn\\" and \\"A Fine and Private Place,\\" which is on my all time favorites list.  In the years since these novels Beagle has become a more youth oriented.  While he has remained accessible to us adults, he aims his message where it will do the most good.  This is especially true of the \\"The Unicorn Sonata,\\" which is not really a coming of age story, but one of finding one's self.<br />Beagle has the ability to turn commonplaces into mysteries in his fiction and from those mysteries construct tales that reflect his abiding belief in human nature.  The reader rediscovers the world through the eyes and ears of Joey and her friends.  In her quest to heal the unicorns' vision she brings clarity to her own.  She is stretched and tested, but never found wanting.  Always, in the end, hope returns and we find healing.never found wanting.  Always, in the end, hope returns and we find healing.	2001-05-14
2001786:US	53082946	R2UHOS4TLXTWI0	0743412400	903116172	The Book of Fours (Buffy: The Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Earth, Air, Water and Fire	We're used to strange events in Sunnydale, but the latest problems make it doubtful that there will be a Sunnydale in the near future.  An unstoppable forest fire, hurricanes, downtown tidal waves and a gratuitous earthquake pummel the unlucky city, and the Slayer and her faithful companions begin to smell a rat, or several rats.  Buffy, Faith (appearing for the first time) and even poor Willow find themselves having nightmares, the very same nightmares.  And the keep running into very irritated mummies with unpleasantly sharp axes.<br />Giles investigates and realizes that a universal bad hair day is in the works.  The mummies are called the Wanderers, serving a prehistoric evil known as the Gatherer.  To make matters worse, a voodoo queen and a gangster demon are also chasing Slayers. Not just the two current slayers, but their immediate predecessors India Cohen and Kendra become tangled up in the demonic plot. Even Willow and Cordelia must become directly involved in what becomes a titanic struggle to prevent the Gatherer from conquering Sunnydale and the rest of the world.<br />This is a complex plot, rich in parallel threads and frantic action.  Perhaps a bit too complex.  Prepare to have to pay attention.  No one is quite who they seem to be and our young heroines must face magic and betrayal before they can confront their opponents.<br />Lately some of the Buffy chronicles have been slightly short on plot, but Nancy Holder has served up one of her best.  At a time when the television series seems bogged down in one tragedy after another, it's a true relief to settle down with a Buffy story that is about the strength and courage that is the hallmark of Buffy and her companions.<br />The book provides a great mix of story and Slayer lore that will delight all fans.  Despite the many zigzags taken by the plot,  Holder manages to keep everything working together.  This one's a keeper.  Hopefully the author will figure out how to put Sunnydale back together again in time for the next novel.again in time for the next novel.	2001-05-12
2002028:US	53082946	R1DSS7MSR8IIYQ	0380730359	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Who Will Care for the Children?	When Beatrice McCready and her husband ask Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro to help find a missing niece, the detective partners immediately realize that they do not want this case.  At the end of three days, police have failed to turn up even a minor lead to the missing Amanda.  Helene, Amanda's mother, is a drug addict and alcoholic who has raised the four-year-old child in near total neglect.  This was a case with few possible good endings.<br />Kenzie and Gennaro are unable to resist Beatrice's pleas, though,  and thus begins the harrowing tale of \\"Gone, Baby, Gone.\\"  As they dig away at a trail that leads to dead-end bars, drug dealers in prison and hints of child abuse the two detectives tease away at the mystery.  When a shoot-out in a quarry nearly kills the detective team, the two realize that they are up against an evil that will stop at nothing to keep Amanda's fate a secret.  An evil that corrupts everything it touches.<br />\\"Gone, Baby, Gone\\" is the grimmest of the Kenzie and Gennaro series.  While not the most violent or horrific of the series, it eats away at you steadily as the detectives untangle Amanda's story.  The fine narrative style and sparkling dialogue that marks a Lehane story draw you in and mesmerize you, but the little voice in your head never forgets that at the heart of this crime is a young child.  You share in the anguish as betrayal destroys friendship, as right becomes wrong and relationships are strained to the breaking point.<br />Lehane has once again written the perfect balance between psychological thriller and devastating action story.  \\"Gone, Baby, Gone\\" is not for the fainthearted.  Long time Lehane fans will know what to expect, but newcomers might want to read some earlier novels in the series.  This is intense noir fiction at it's best.	2001-05-12
2003898:US	53082946	R2U589Q429QNA1	1560251581	395196506	Bodies: Boris Vallejo: Photographic Art	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Illustrator AND Photographer	Most people who are familiar with Boris Vallejo's work know him as a fantasy illustrator.  He is on of the best in his field, producing strong, graphic images of physically impressive people.  I was surprised to discover that most often Vallejo works from life, or photographs of models.<br />Originally Vallejo used a professional photographer, but he became interested in photographer and began to do his own work.  He brings to his black and white photographic images the same intensity that he uses in his illustration.  No doubt due in part to his interest in body building Vallejo's perception of beauty is a bit different from the photographic norm.<br />Vallejo's women are not the slim ephemeral beauties that inhabit the fantasies of your average, slightly flabby, American male.  These women are people to contend with, who hand swords and armor with the same facility we do Palm Pilots.  Using these strong thewed yet remarkably sensual women (and men too) Vallejo creates images of refined quality with a startling sense of natural form and flow.  They lack the excessive strain that sometimes appears in photos of body builders.<br />Vallejo uses medium format cameras to create images of extreme detail, and is unafraid to include the scars and bumps along with the lush sensuality of skin and hair.  As such there is a dimensional effect which can be hypnotic.  Some might quibble over whether this is fine art photography, but these are striking, unforgettable images.	2001-05-10
2004411:US	53082946	R203N2VPZ4ISED	0727855050	596886661	A Shadow on the Wall	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	I Am Not Dead but Living	When Matthew Atherton, another fellow at the University, calls on Richard Asquith for help in unraveling a series of strange events at the church of Thornham St. Stephen, Richard himself plunged into a dark mystery of ancient evil.  Matthew's brother Edward, while restoring the church, has opened the 14th Century tomb of William de Lindesey and has released a shadowy evil that haunts the village and is sucking the life from Edward.<br />The men arrive at Thornham to discover the church locked and Edward horrifyingly dead.  Further events only darken the mystery, and Richard finds himself in pursuit of a shadowy affliction that haunts and destroys all the lives it touches.  First attacking the villagers and the Atherton's, the evil at last turn's its eyes to those who Asquith loves and his investigation turns into a race with death and what lays beyond it.  To accomplish this Asquith must unravel a horror inextricably tied up with events that occurred five hundred years earlier during the black plague.<br />Aycliffe, on the strength of this and several earlier novels (he also writes as Daniel Easterman) is often compared to Montague James, one of England's finest writers of ghost stories.  James is one of a school of  early 20th Century horror writers that included Algernon Blackwood, Lord Dunsany and Arthur Machen.  The similarity is undeniable, especially in the choice and use of plot devices.  However, his choice of writing style, which is that of a novel of the 1890's, is more like that of Machen, who is my particular favorite of the group.<br />Arthur Machen was brilliant at descriptive narrative, setting eerie atmospheres with swift brushstrokes.  Aycliffe, like Machen uses language carefully and has a fine sense of when it is more horrifying to leave something unsaid.  Of course, all of Machen and James school were fine writers, and it is a deep compliment to Aycliffe's writing that he can be tarred with the same brush.  With the exception of one perfectly horrible pun (an innkeeper reports that Edward dies of an 'apostolic' fit) he stays perfectly in character.  I am looking forward to future novels in this vein.rible pun (an innkeeper reports that Edward dies of an 'apostolic' fit) he stays perfectly in character.  I am looking forward to future novels in this vein.	2001-05-10
2005371:US	53082946	RVREY42CQJ3HQ	0786703385	917252790	Pearls Before Swine: An Albert Campion Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Back From the War	In the waning days of World War II Albert Campion has returned on leave.  His intent is to take a quick shower in his London and then take a train into the country to be with his wife Amanda and a child he never quite got to see.  Unfortunately, he surprises Lugg and Lady Carados, the mother of his close friend Johnny, carrying a corpse into his rooms.<br />Discovering that the corpse is of a woman who had the nerve to crawl into Johnny Carados' bed and take an overdose of sleeping salts, Campion attempts to get things under control and then thinks the better of it and sets out for the train.  When he is kidnapped by the cab driver and returns mysteriously to consciousness in a garage, the police order him to stay in London to help with the Carados problem.  A much-disgruntled Campion starts digging into a suicide that now appears to be a murder.<br />In short order the plot thickens.  To the murder add a stolen bottle of rare wine.  Then another murder attempt.  Then mix in some art thefts.  To make matters worse, the primary suspect is Johnny Carados, who is back in town to marry the widow of a war buddy.  But she's in love with an U.S. soldier on duty in London.  It gets even more complicated, but if I told you any more I would start giving away the plot (maybe that should be `plots').<br />\\"Pearl Before Swine\\" is a perfect parlor puzzle, full of interlocking pieces that never quite seem to fit together.  Not only has Allingham once again created a great detective story, but she also captures much of the atmosphere and psychology of wartime London.  Early in the book Carados complains to Albert, \\"I'm living in two different worlds, Campion, two utterly different worlds.\\"  As, the reader will discover, are most characters in this novel.  And it is up to Campion to pierce through all the masks.	2001-05-09
2005633:US	53082946	R2WV1P8NV6GW6A	0425179265	91805765	The Mummy Returns	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Not Quite Mummy Dearest	I greatly enjoyed  \\"The Mummy\\" when it was resurrected several years ago.  I recall late hours spent watching Zacherlee and Shock Theater, entranced by the antics of a whole slew of monsters, with The Mummy being one of the most memorable.  In those days movies still had to have plots and spooky atmospherics to do what we do with special effects and a truckload of gore today.<br />What made the new \\"Mummy\\" fun was not just the updated effects.  It also had just the right tongue-in-cheek attitude.  Let's face it, mummy movies are high camp.  Abbott and Costello figured it out first, but it took decades before Universal Pictures discovered the same secret.<br />When I discovered that the novelization of \\"The Mummy Returns\\" was available I snapped it up.  After all, paperbacks are still cheaper than movies and they can be re-read.  Set 10 years later than the original movie, Rick O'Connell and Evelyn Carnahan have married and have an 8-year-old son, Alex.  They have returned to Egypt seeking the Bracelet of Anubis, an ancient artifact associated with the legendary Scorpion King of Egypt's fabled past.  In doing so they trigger an adventure that will have them chasing all over the Egyptian map.  For, not far from the O'Connell dig, a group of nefarious cultists are once again resurrecting the mummy of the evil Imhotep, the real star of the first movie.<br />Imhotep's has plans for the Scorpion King and his minions which require the bracelet.  He would also like to even the score with the O'Connells, who foiled his first return.  When Alex inadvertently puts on the Bracelet of Anubis, and is kidnapped, he triggers a chase scene that stretches from England to Abyssinia.  Before Alex (and life as we know it) is rescued, our doughty heroes will be treated to every kind of adventure and mishap, including  reincarnation, dirigible rides, pigmy zombies, and the Scorpion King himself.<br />\\"The Mummy Returns\\" is an excellent novelization of what is a movie that is long on fun and action even if it is a bit short on plot.  Max Collins does a good job of taking a thin script and turning it into something enjoyable.  Don't expect deep insights or serious Egyptology.  This is simply a few hours of enjoyable, light entertainment.  Have fun!!un and action even if it is a bit short on plot.  Max Collins does a good job of taking a thin script and turning it into something enjoyable.  Don't expect deep insights or serious Egyptology.  This is simply a few hours of enjoyable, light entertainment.  Have fun!!	2001-05-09
2006262:US	53082946	R74E8J5TKR4YG	3822886017	27118012	Eric Kroll's Beauty Parade (English, German and French Edition)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Fetish Girls Revisited.	After his success with \\"Fetish Girls,\\" Eric Kroll found himself in a new position.  Previously he had thought of himself as a photographer who forever pushed the boundaries of art photography's subject matter.  Unexpectedly, he found himself sharing the limelight with other `fringe' photographers such as Cindy Sherman, Nan Golden and Richard Kern.  These and many others had also been waiting for taboos to come down.  No sooner did Kroll become popular for being avant-garde then he found his work being accepted as mainstream.<br />Fortunately for us, Kroll did not decide to rest on his laurels.  During the next few years he remained active.  Gradually, Kroll pulled away from `fashion' fetish work and started to work harder at exploring the sexual nature of the fetishist's urges and dreams.  Behind the allure of his models lay a rawer, stronger layer of desire.  Now the viewer often must question his or her own sexuality and fantasy.<br />From this quest arose the work that went into \\"Beauty Parade,\\" which is a natural extension and outgrowth of \\"Fetish Girls.\\"  Not only has Kroll's work become more refined and controlled, it also shows development at the technical level.  His focus seems sharper and his graphic sense strong, but he has also gained a fine sense of tension and movement.  This enhances the impact of many of the already strong images.<br />Kroll flirts with pornography but never quite crosses the line.  In fact, some of the most sexual images contain little nudity.  This is not a volume for the easily shocked or overly judgmental.  The fetish focus often creates overtones of sexual practice gone slightly awry.  Kroll invites us to look into the darker beauties of human desire and make our own decisions about what is art, what is us, and what is not.	2001-05-08
2009764:US	53082946	R199GPSHPPO3T9	3822889164	973051351	Eric Kroll's Fetish Girls (Photobook) (English, German and French Edition)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	To Each His Own	Webster, ever polite, defines fetishism as a fixation of sexual interest on a part of the body, on an article of clothing, or some other device.  The key word is fixation, obviously, not the object itself.  Given the American male focus on breast size, one could argue that a very large percent of the population are unofficial fetishists.  In truth, we all are.  Few of us do not have favorite parts and fantasies that enhance and focus our sexual experience.  And few fetishists are totally focussed on a particular fantasy to the exclusion of other forms of fulfillment.<br />Eric Kroll is a photographer whose body of work documents a large segment of the world of erotic fixation.  His women come in a variety of shapes and sizes.  They dress in leather, vinyl, lace and almost anything else you might care to imagine.  They use paraphernalia such as whips, ropes, clips, clamps, and things I cannot mention here.  Some are submissive, some are dominant and almost every variation in between is also represented.<br />Many of Kroll's images are beautifully posed and thought out, combining sexual lushness with a fine aesthetic sense.  Other photographs are almost purely documentary.  The original edition \\"Fetish Girls,\\" with 200 pages of images is a vast summary of Kroll's work at the time (1994) and reveals much of his interests, his skills and a curious sense of humor.  The miniature edition offers less, but the editing choices are good.  At my age, though I find the smaller images require a bit of squinting.  Printing is better in the larger edition as well. Unfortunately it is currently out of print, but it is still readily available from resellers and used book dealers.<br />Both the photographer and the fetishist will find \\"Fetish Girls\\" of interest.  As a photographer, Kroll has had a great deal of influence in the field of fetish photography in the thirty years he has worked.  It is hard to find a photographer in this genre that hasn't been influence by Kroll, and few have his breadth or technical skills.  As a fetishist, Kroll shows himself has having a wide range of interest and a sympathetic approach to many of the varieties of sexual experience.  He is by no means an extremist, though, and avoids the violence and rough sex of some of his competitors.  Perfectly normal people will also find much of interest in this landmark volume of erotic imagery.ave his breadth or technical skills.  As a fetishist, Kroll shows himself has having a wide range of interest and a sympathetic approach to many of the varieties of sexual experience.  He is by no means an extremist, though, and avoids the violence and rough sex of some of his competitors.  Perfectly normal people will also find much of interest in this landmark volume of erotic imagery.	2001-05-05
2009935:US	53082946	R34EJX6L9X6P3C	0393030547	218463748	Finders, Keepers: Eight Collectors	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Eight Collectors Collecting	I have to start out by confessing that I bought this book for the pictures.  I am fascinated by the photography of the grotesque, and Rosamond Purcell holds high rank in this rarified genre.  She is noted both for her own original work and her recording (museum, collection, etc.) work.  Her photography in \\"Finders, Keepers\\" is remarkable, strong carefully composed images with lush color.  Just as notable is her reliance on natural light and the simplest of Nikon cameras and lenses.<br />The only part of the book I originally read was Purcell's Afterword.  It is a delightful exposition on her romance with collectors and museums, revealing a thoughtful, philosophical professional with a strong creative sense.  After that much reading I was satisfied, and the book took its place on my shelves with Purcell's other works, to be referred to when opportunities of my own appeared.<br />Having decided to review it, I discovered, to my embarrassment, that the book was actually about something.  The text, far from being the filler that often appears in photographic volumes, turned out to be a series of gemlike studies of eight collectors of note, consisting of Peter the Great, Phillip Von Siebold, Willern Von Heurn, Eugen Dubois, Walter Rothschild, Agostino Scilla, Thomas Hawkins and Louis Agassiz .  Some of these men are popularly famous and others are known only to other naturalists, but they are all interesting.  Their collections, sometimes known only from fragments are breathtaking.<br />The author of these essays is Stephen Gould, paleontologist and occupant of the Alexander Agassiz Chair of Zoology and Curator at the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology.  Despite these rather awe inspiring credentials his style is delightfully accessible as he reveals each collector's life and passion to the reader.  If you like paleontology, or natural history, or glances into the strange mind of the collector you will find this a refreshingly pleasant volume, providing an equal share of education and delight.of education and delight.	2001-05-05
2015569:US	53082946	R19AJSHPRSQCPH	0967450314	478494611	City of Whispering Stone	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Archeology and Politics Do Not Mix	In my pre-Amazon years I encountered several mystery stories by George Chesbro.  I enjoyed both.  They had occult and eerie overtones in addition to the underlying mystery story.  The 'detective' in these books is Mongo Frederickson a dwarf ex-circus star who went on to become an academic criminologist and adventurer/detective.  For some reason I never ran into another Chesbro mystery.  Recently, I discovered that Chesbro had written many Mongo stories.  I decided it was time to do a little catching up.<br />&quot;City of Whispering Stone&quot; is thus my first Chesbro in some 20 years.  I say `new' guardedly, since it was originally written in 1978.  It features Professor Robert Fredrickson (more commonly known as Mongo the Magnificent) as detective.  Mongo is called in by an old circus friend to investigate the disappearance of Hassan Khordad, an Iranian circus star.  The few leads point to a political tie-in with the old Iranian regime (the revolution is still to come).  Back at the University where he teaches, Mongo follows this lead to the Confederation of Iranian Students and finds himself embroiled in the political turmoil of pre-revolutionary Iran.<br />Mongo becomes the target of the Iranian secret police, the CIA, arms smugglers, and even the Iranian liberation front (GEM).  Seeking answers, he only manages to dig deeper into a political maze he barely understands.  Suddenly, during the investigation, the Iranian girlfriend of Mongo's brother is killed. Garth, the brother, flies into Iran to attend her funeral, and promptly disappears.  Mongo suddenly finds himself in Tehran trying to track down Garth.  The remainder of the story is both a fascinating tour of pre-revolutionary Iran and an adventure story that would do Indiana Jones credit.<br />&quot;City of Whispering Stone&quot; is tightly plotted with a lot of surprising turns. The flashes of insight into Iranian politics are eye opening, for we Americans are accustomed to having the Shah portrayed as a hero and the revolutionaries as villains.  Dialog is often humorous and tongue-in-cheek.  I have to admit that Mongo's athletic prowess with shoe knives as a bit hard to swallow, but it just makes the story more exciting.  All in all this is great reading.  Keep an eye out for Chesbro's books.hero and the revolutionaries as villains.  Dialog is often humorous and tongue-in-cheek.  I have to admit that Mongo's athletic prowess with shoe knives as a bit hard to swallow, but it just makes the story more exciting.  All in all this is great reading.  Keep an eye out for Chesbro's books.	2001-04-30
2016165:US	53082946	R1A7Q5MIC13X7M	0967450357	799853928	The Fear in Yesterday's Rings	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	When Is a Circus Not a Circus?	Mongo Frederickson, ex-circus performer, ex-college professor, detective and dwarf, answers a call from a hospital acquaintance and finds that Phil Statler, his circus mentor, is now a patient.  He has become a homeless alcoholic patient who is close to dying.  Mongo comes to the rescue and Phil recovers only to tell a sad story of the circus's financial decay and it's forced sale.<br />On a mission to rescue Statler, Mongo flies to Palmetto Grove, Florida where many circus players have retired.  He talks the residents into funding the repurchase of the circus and putting Phil back in charge as manager.  Not quite coincidentally, Mongo also manages to kindle an affair with Harper Rhys-Whitney, the snake trainer.  Or maybe Harper does the kindling.  In any case, Harper is now a bit on the wealthy side, so she and Mongo fly off in her plane to track down the errant circus.<br />Little does Mongo realize that, on his quest for the circus, he is about to cross the paths of a violent murderer, a crypto-biologist, the world's greatest lion tamer and an illicit arms dealer.  Deadly mysteries seem to surround Phil Statler's old circus.  Most of them seem aimed right as Mongo and Harper.<br />George Chesbro spins a fine tale of Mongo's exploits, mixing a lot of detective fiction with a dash of science fiction and a dollop of just plain weird.  It may be hard to imagine a dwarf as a hard-boiled detective, but Chesbro pulls it off with flair.  Mongo not only out-thinks, but also out-fights, most of his opponents.  Nor is that the sum total of his skills (just ask Harper).  &quot;The Fear in Yesterday's Rings&quot; is great fiction read regardless of what genre you decide it's in.  First time Mongo readers are in for a pleasant surprise.	2001-04-30
2018167:US	53082946	RQSDUT8GEXRGX	0786704470	442821591	Traitor's Purse (Allingham, Margery)	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Campion Immemorial	A stranger wakes up in a hospital with no memory of his identity.  He overhears a nurse talking to a policeman and discovers he is wanted for murder.  He escapes down the hall, dresses himself in some fire protection gear and makes for the exit.  In the confusion of the alarm he sets off, he manages to escape, steals a car, and heads off into the night...to a formal dinner.<br />And so begins &quot;Traitor's Purse,&quot; another in the long series of Albert Campion adventure/mystery stories.  Campion, handicapped by a memory that is only partially functional, must discover what horrible plot he had uncovered and how to stop it.  All he remembers is that it involves the august Bridge Institute where some of England's most important war research is done.  When the first person he meets with is promptly murdered and the second, a beautiful woman named Amanda, tells him she wants to break of their engagement, Campion finds himself facing insurmountable odds.<br />But face them he does.  With a bit of fakery and the aid of the beautiful Amanda, Campion gradually makes headway.  Leaving a trail of brutalized policemen and baffled menservants Campion manages to hide from his pursuit while uncovering the mystery.  In doing so, he must face everything from muscle to madness, and live to talk about it.<br />I am not generally a fan of the 'lost memory' plot device.  While &quot;Traitor's Purse&quot; is not my favorite Allingham tale, she manages make good use of Campion's disability and keeps the action and mystery churning.  In addition, Amanda (who originally appeared in &quot;The Fear Sign&quot;) provides a unique romantic twist that is unusual in a Campion story.  Lugg does a fine job in his appearances as well.  In truth, my only issue is that a Campion who doesn't remember who he is, isn't quite as much fun as one who does.<br />In truth, there's nothing to be grumpy about.  \\"Traitor's Purse\\" is actually a finely crafted tale, with many twists and turns.  Because Campion's character is somewhat suppressed, Allingham spends more time than usual developing the other denizens of the institute and it's surroundings, much to the reader's delight.ion's character is somewhat suppressed, Allingham spends more time than usual developing the other denizens of the institute and it's surroundings, much to the reader's delight.	2001-04-28
2020016:US	53082946	R296SX53UNT9A2	0743406982	571814612	Avatar (ANGEL)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	demons	Out in Los Angeles a so-so net hacker has managed to make a deal with a demon.  A deal that will allow that demon to complete a ritual of slaughter and be reborn a second time on the earth.  Vishrak demons are bad news even in their first incarnation, but when incarnated for the second time they leave large holes in the population.  Now Elliott Grundy the not-quite-hacker is using the net to troll for victims.<br />On the other side of town Doyle, Angel's assistant, has had a vision that sends Angel to a death site where he runs into Kate Lockley, the detective.  Other than a dried, empty skin there is no evidence.  Kate tells Angel that this is not the first victim.  Angel follows up the other cases and finds few clues.  The victims are male and female with nothing in common.  And witnesses all seem to have seen a different killer.  Angel knows it's a demon, but he has no idea what.<br />Coming from Las Angeles and San Francisco members of a secret sect come together.  Called the Brotherhood of Vishrak, they possess secret lore.  For they know the power of Vishrak blood and have hunted them through the ages.  Now their down to the last Vishrak demon on earth, except he's not quite on earth yet.  With fierce intensity they too are following the killings, trying to catch the demon.  Their plan is to trap it in this dimension so that it can be their own, personal keg of Vishrak essence.<br />Angel, Cordelia and Doyle race against time to track the demon and its human assistant down.  And discover how to kill it.  They need help from other demons, friends, and the Internet itself.  \\"Avatar,\\" is a non-stop chase scene with short breaks for research and monster feedings.  John Passarella is a natural story teller, and all the characters, even the demon, ring perfectly true.  This is the kind of book you can almost read in one sitting.  As is true of most books set in the Buffy-verse you need some familiarity with the TV shows to understand some of the references.  But not a whole lot.  If this is your first Angel book or your seventh, you'll love it.t a whole lot.  If this is your first Angel book or your seventh, you'll love it.	2001-04-26
2020629:US	53082946	R3RJGUJHIS0P7	0312872828	974546735	The Scottish Ploy: A Mycroft Holmes Novel (Mycroft Holmes Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Oh What a Tangled Web They Weave	\\"The Scottish Ploy\\" is the fourth volume in Quinn Fawcett's successful Mycroft Holmes series.  In this tale Mycroft and his secretary Paterson Guthrie once again confront the secretive Brotherhood in their effort to infiltrate England and destroy world peace.  Holmes is determined to prevent the entry of two of the Brotherhood's top men under the guise of uncles facilitating the reconciliation of Sir Cameron MacMillian and his estranged German wife.  This involves complex diplomatic negotiations that seem to be frustrated at every turn.<br />In fact, Mycroft Holmes is confronted with a mare's nest of problems including a Turk's missing brother, a famous phrenologist, and perpetually being pursued and shot at.  It is all that Mycroft and Guthrie can do to find the common threads and come to grips with a plot that makes devilish use of what are normally Holmes strengths.<br />This series has a great deal of charm to it.  While I wouldn't say that Mycroft Holme's personality is exactly true to Conan Doyle, he is certainly in character for an intelligent man of his position during the 1890's in London.  Paterson Guthrie is perfectly typecast as a gentleman of breeding.  Paterson is certainly younger and brighter than Watson is, but he is cut from the same cloth.  Sometimes he is so stuffy you just want to kick him.<br />Greatly increasing Guthrie's stuffiness quotient is the reappearance of Penelope Gatspy, the indomitable agent of the Golden Lodge.  The Lodge is a secret organization of mysterious goals, which, on occasion, coincide with those of Mycroft Holmes.  Miss Gatspy, who can outshoot, out think, out race and out last just about any English gentleman, is the undoing of Guthrie.  Of course, the only person who doesn't know that Paterson Guthrie is in love with Penelope is Guthrie himself.  He has, unfortunately, no idea how to deal with a `modern' woman and this provides much of the humorous by-play in \\"The Scottish Ploy.\\"<br />The book is very well written.  Aficionados should know that most of the key bit players also put in their appearances.  By the fourth volume though, I have finally realized that, while there is a great deal of deduction and adventure in these books, Holmes and Guthrie are often dry and humorless to a fault.  Penelope does her best, but it is too much to ask of even such an incredibly talented woman to completely humanize two such paragons of British propriety.<br />Oh well, just because they never seem to laugh at anything doesn't meant that we can't, and there as enough humor and mystery and suspense to keep the story from ever flagging.  I would, however, suggest reading one or more of the earlier volumes before taking up \\"The Scottish Ploy.\\"  Much history is carried forth from previous volumes and Fawcett is not one to offer extensive explanations.  Have no fear, once you start reading them you will never regret the decision.icionados should know that most of the key bit players also put in their appearances.  By the fourth volume though, I have finally realized that, while there is a great deal of deduction and adventure in these books, Holmes and Guthrie are often dry and humorless to a fault.  Penelope does her best, but it is too much to ask of even such an incredibly talented woman to completely humanize two such paragons of British propriety.<br />Oh well, just because they never seem to laugh at anything doesn't meant that we can't, and there as enough humor and mystery and suspense to keep the story from ever flagging.  I would, however, suggest reading one or more of the earlier volumes before taking up \\"The Scottish Ploy.\\"  Much history is carried forth from previous volumes and Fawcett is not one to offer extensive explanations.  Have no fear, once you start reading them you will never regret the decision.	2001-04-26
2024733:US	53082946	R1ZMM2ISF6DVH8	187159281X	972068985	City of the Broken Dolls	Books	3	13	15	N	N	The Aesthetics of Injury	I received this volume as a gift, given by a friend who knows my interest in forensic and fetish photography.  The subtitle is `A Medical Art Diary 1993-1996,' but it is actually a difficult book to classify.  It is composed of 100 plates, most of which are of bandaged women in various stages of mild undress.  They are either wandering around Tokyo, in hospital rooms, or at home.  There are some additional contextual shots of scenes in the city without the obligatory bandaged woman.<br />I am tempted to leave it at that.  There is no doubt that this is fetish photography.  The liner notes write of Slocomb's vision of Tokyo as `a city seething with undercurrents of violent fantasy, fetishism and bondage.'  What gives me a problem is that Slocombe's images lack the kind of intensity that I would expect in this kind of photography.  If anything, the bandaging de-sexualizes the women, unlike true bondage, which over-emphasizes sexuality.<br />The printing style emphasizes this difference.  All but the cover are in black and white, and are a bit soft in tone and focus.  Composition is very offhand and snapshot-like.  The overall effect is almost ethereal and bloodless.  It's as is we are living in a dream, but one that lacks a story line.  I find myself intellectually understanding the implications of the photographs, but totally lacking any visceral reaction.<br />If I were to attack the same problems, I know I would do it differently.  I would strive for some element (other than the mere presence of bandaged women) to focus the viewer and provide continuity over the range of images.  Slocombe's choices are interesting, but I do not find them compelling	2001-04-22
2025625:US	53082946	R2FTSKA4R27E18	1565048768	774635701	Anthology (Clan Novel: Vampire the Masquerade)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Closer to Closure	At the end of \\"Nosferatu,\\" the last of the thirteen clan novels, there is a promise of a further volume that would tie up some of the countless loose threads left dangling.  \\"Anthology\\" is that volume.  It contains 13 tales, one again for each clan, written primarily by the authors of the original volumes.<br />The tales do indeed shed light on some of the mysteries of the original volumes, especially the end game and the strangeness below New Your City.  About a third of the stories cover the aftermath of the capture of New York, and make a bit of sense of events.  All of the other stories are set elsewhere.  Several cover events before the clan novels but most are also post-capture.  Don't, however, expect everything to be made clear.  The are still enough mysteries and opportunities for many more additions to the series.<br />I was surprised how much better these tales are written compared to the novels themselves.  The shorter format seems more accessible for many of the writers.  Don't expect true short stories, though, these are really little vignettes and pastiches and make little sense if read without the experience of the first thirteen volumes.  I'm not a fan of short stories, but I found myself enjoying these.  Readers of the clan novels with find that this volume brings the series into tighter focus.<br />I particularly enjoyed Kathleen Ryan's efforts (\\"Embarkation\\" and \\"Selfless\\") and Eric Griffen's \\"Flesh of my Flesh.\\"  For most readers, the final four stories, by Gherbod Fleming, Justin Achilli, and Stewart Wieck will be the gems of the collection.  These are all set in and below New York City and go the furthest to explain the events in the novels.<br />If the original novels left you a bit unsatisfied, I think you will find the \\"Anthology\\" helps to close the gap.  All Vampire: The Masquerade fans will find much to like.	2001-04-21
2025660:US	53082946	R1MR68QLAMB8KI	0843946334	614948685	Prey	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Return of Brown Jenkin	David Williams is not having a good year.  His wife leaves him and his son, Daniel, for another man, taking most of his money in the process.  In his emotional distraction he loses his business.  It is only by happenstance that he finds a position restoring Fortyfoot House, a century old deserted orphanage.  No sooner does he settle in but he starts hearing spooky scratching and rustling in the attic.  And he sees ghostly presences in the garden and bedroom.<br />The only good news in David's life is the appearance of Elizabeth, an attractive college student, who moves in while on a summer job.  She helps with the cooking and provides needed companionship.  As David investigates the strange goings on about Fortyfoot House he discovers that the strange noises and lights are blamed by the villagers on a strange rat-like creature called Brown Jenkin.  He is associated with the original owners of the house.  In 1886 a terrible disease struck the orphanage and all the children died.  In some fashion Brown Jenkin had something to do with the deaths.<br />Soon the haunting turns into killing, as first a rat killer, and then a neighbor, are horribly slaughtered.  David discovers that the house isn't quite where it appears to be.  The horror builds until the lives of both Daniel and Liz are threatened and David is drawn into an insane ritual that promises the end of the world.  David must face inhuman evil if he wishes to end the nightmare.<br />Graham Masterton, less known that writers like King, Straub and Koontz, is still one of our best contemporary horror writers.  &quot;Prey,&quot; written in 1992, is something of a tour-de-force.  Masterton makes use of both legends and occult mythology to craft a tale that draws the reader in and keeps him or her reading to the very end.  Masterton has the ability to build the horror of a scene so that is has real impact.  His narrative flows naturally and his use of internal dialog contributes to the dark atmosphere.  &quot;Prey&quot; is a classic of top-notch spookiness.uot; is a classic of top-notch spookiness.	2001-04-21
2026258:US	53082946	R3SKMUDNZ6CXPH	0847819981	307140722	Greg Gorman Inside Life	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fine Artistic Commitment	When a Photographer has done the hard work necessary to become a portraitist for many of our modern musicians, screen personalities and others of note there is always a danger that his or her work will lose its innovative drive.  Greg Norman has managed to avoid this pitfall and has retained his ability to make deep, searing penetrations into the personae of his subjects.  There is a natural intensity to Norman's work that often disguises the tremendous control he actually exerts over the process.<br />Greg Norman's career started as an amateur taking shots at rock'n'roll concerts.  He went on to document the protest era, film work in Los Angeles and portraiture.  Always showing a fine sense of the moment, his images breathe with life.  He works almost entirely in black and white, creating strong, graphic prints.<br />I love the perfect contrast of a shot of the Barbi Twins, the incredible expression on a photo of Nina Hagen, the frequent glimpses of Keanu Reeves, and many, many others.  \\"Inside Life\\" has about 175 beautifully printed photographs in it, and very little distracting text.  There is a foreword by John Waters, an introduction by Dave Fulton, and a short afterthoughts section for reflections from some of his subjects.<br />\\"Inside Life\\" is a remarkable testimony to the work of one of America's notable photographers during the 90's.  It has value as a source of inspiration for other photographers as well as being a beautiful coffee table book.	2001-04-21
2031766:US	53082946	R33B360R3OZZ43	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	21	29	N	N	Scooby Doo, Where Are You?  Weve Got Some Work To Do.	I bought \\"Dreamcatcher\\" because I loved \\"It,\\" and was looking forward to a similar horror story with the same characters.  I am not a great Stephen King fan, but something about `It\\" caught my fancy when I read it.  It was some magical combination of the characters, a creepy plot and Mr. King's admittedly considerable writing skills.<br />Had I not taken the time to read a few Amazon.com reviews of the book before it arrived, I might have been expecting an \\"It\\" clone and been as disappointed as some of the other reviewers.  But forewarned is forearmed, and I was prepared for something new.  I think sometimes as readers we become upset when a writer changes style, or kills off a favorite character.  We forget that most authors need to be free to experiment and grow in new directions.  I'm as guilty of this as the next reader.<br />King commits both sins in \\"Dreamcatcher.\\"  In short order, two of the four stars of \\"It\\" are written out of the plot.  And, to top it off, \\"Dreamcatcher\\" isn't really a horror story.  Maybe is a creepy science fiction story, possible a psychological thriller, and perhaps, something much, much more.<br />To make matters even worse, much of the book takes place in the minds of Henry and Jonesy, the two survivors of the original gang of four.  Actually, a great deal of this story of alien invasion, military insanity and a mad chase to save Boston takes place as real, and pretty horrific, action.  But King's writing style defuses the horror and focuses instead on the weird mental and telepathic ballet that takes place between Henry, Jonesy, the alien trying to take over Jonesy's mind, and countless other characters that play out their roles inside the dreamcatcher.  This does not make for easy reading.<br />But what makes this story special isn't the alien weirdness or the telepathy.  \\"Dreamcatcher\\" is really the story of Duddits, a childhood friend of the boys from `It,\\" and the victim of Down's syndrome.  Perhaps victim is the wrong word.  I try my liberal best to be only moderately squeamish around the disadvantaged.  I have heard and read that children affected by Down's often have extraordinary and wonderful personalities.  But \\"Dreamcatcher\\" made this all real to me.<br />In bits and scenes and memories, I saw Duddits from the viewpoint of the boys, his mother, and Duddits himself.  I'm glad the telling was fragmentary, because I found myself, on several occasions, needing to stop reading and take a break to deal with emotions that I never expected a King novel to touch.  I certainly will never again be able to hear the Scooby Doo song, Duddit's song, the same way.  Unexpectedly, \\"Dreamcatcher\\" caught me up and opened a new line of thinking.<br />More to the point, I have come to learn that the real tragedy of Down's syndrome might not be the affliction itself, but the fragility and short life span of those so afflicted.  And that this might be our loss, as much as it is theirs.  The real lesson of King's book is that handicapped also have a contribution, can make a difference, can even help save the world.  \\"You were the lucky one, buddy,\\" Henry says to Duddits at the end, \\"You were always the lucky one, that's what I think.\\"  To which Duddits, true to his nature, responds \\"I love you, Henry.\\"<br />Thank you, Steven King.try my liberal best to be only moderately squeamish around the disadvantaged.  I have heard and read that children affected by Down's often have extraordinary and wonderful personalities.  But \\"Dreamcatcher\\" made this all real to me.  <br />In bits and scenes and memories, I saw Duddits from the viewpoint of the boys, his mother, and Duddits himself.  I'm glad the telling was fragmentary, because I found myself, on several occasions, needing to stop reading and take a break to deal with emotions that I never expected a King novel to touch.  I certainly will never again be able to hear the Scooby Doo song, Duddit's song, the same way.  Unexpectedly, \\"Dreamcatcher\\" caught me up and opened a new line of thinking.<br />More to the point, I have come to learn that the real tragedy of Down's syndrome might not be the affliction itself, but the fragility and short life span of those so afflicted.  And that this might be our loss, as much as it is theirs.  The real lesson of King's book is that handicapped also have a contribution, can make a difference, can even help save the world.  \\"You were the lucky one, buddy,\\" Henry says to Duddits at the end, \\"You were always the lucky one, that's what I think.\\"  To which Duddits, true to his nature, responds \\"I love you, Henry.\\"<br />Thank you, Steven King.	2001-04-17
2033543:US	53082946	R2MI7WWPVA90NB	1567230067	830063659	Dancers in Mourning	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Cupid Agonistes	No doubt Allingham fans will remember Uncle William from \\"Police at the Funeral.\\"  William's near miss with the British legal system and the death of his mother having left him at loose ends, so he decides to write his memoirs.  Having lived an unexceptional life, William decides to make it up out of whole cloth.  Unexpectedly, the book, \\"Memoirs of an Old Buffer,\\" becomes a comic bestseller.  To ice the cake, a musical review, starring Jimmy Sutane, the dancer, is a runaway success.  All should be roses.<br />Unfortunately, this is not the case.  Freak accidents and practical jokes have dogged the cast of the play, and nerves are running high.  Uncle William calls in Albert Campion to help resolve the problems and return things to normal.  After a backstage visit Campion accepts an invitation to Sutane's country house, where he meets Sutane's long time friend Squire Mercer, his understudy Benny Konrad, supporting actress Chloe Pye, and many other players in the drama about to unfold.  Much to Campion's shock he find's himself stricken by Suntane's wife, Linda.  Everything comes to a head when Chloe Pye falls off a road bridge directly in front of Sutane's moving vehicle.  The inquest is inconclusive, unable to decide if se was pushed, fell, or jumped.<br />Completely befuddled by his feelings for Linda, Campion has difficulty focussing on the case.  He withdraws, providing help only sporadically.  Not even the sudden tragedy of the bombing murder of Benny Konrad, which leaves 15 people dead or injured, seems to rouse him from this state.  Finally, it is the pleas of Linda herself that arouse him to the hunt again.  Even so, it is an unwilling Campion that follows the trails to their inevitable, tragic conclusion.<br />This is one of Allingham's most difficult books.  Truly, we are not used to an unwilling Campion.  Without the precious antics of Magersfontein Lugg, Campion's manservant, the overall tone of the book would be darkly somber.  Yet the writing is some of her best.  Character depictions are deep and well made.  There are moments in the dialog and narrative that attain an almost poetic clarity.  The plot is complex and moves along well.  And, for those of us who do not always pay close attention, the ending is a bit of a surprise.  Allingham has wandered onto uncharted waters in \\"Dancers in Mourning,\\" and she has done very well.f her best.  Character depictions are deep and well made.  There are moments in the dialog and narrative that attain an almost poetic clarity.  The plot is complex and moves along well.  And, for those of us who do not always pay close attention, the ending is a bit of a surprise.  Allingham has wandered onto uncharted waters in \\"Dancers in Mourning,\\" and she has done very well.	2001-04-15
2034815:US	53082946	R2J2IY4TDQUTTA	0786702915	28794700	Flowers for the Judge: An Albert Campion Mystery	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Disappearing Inc.	With \\"Flowers for the Judge\\" Margery Allingham signals the change in her writing style which was first hinted at in \\"Police at the Funeral.\\"  Campion has matured a bit and changed from a hapless zany to someone just a bit more like a friend of the family.  Still occasionally fatuous, but, more often, showing flashes of brilliance.  In keeping with this, the stories themselves are shifting away from adventure tales and becoming more typical of detective stories.  While Allingham is rarely very good at keeping secrets, there really are mysteries and inexplicable clues to puzzle out.<br />The mystery in \\"Flowers for the Judge,\\" is who murdered Paul Brande in the cellar lock room of Barnabas Limited.  Brande is one of the owners of this respectable publishing firm, along with his cousins John Widdowson and Michael Wedgewood.  Paul, noted for running off without notice, and being a bit hare-brained to boot, leaves behind his wife Gina.  He had proven himself somewhat lacking as a husband and Gina was in the process of trying to divorce him.  To make this even more suspicious, her relationship with Michael, while not exactly improper, is a bit too close to be considered a simple friendship.<br />When the police discover that the murder weapon was Michael's car, which was used to pump carbon monoxide into the lock room, suspicions blossom.  With Michael unable to produce an alibi, the result of the inquest is a forgone conclusion, and Michael is remanded over for trial.  Gina and Ritchie Barnabas (another cousin) turn to Campion for help.<br />The case is complicated by other events and hints of scandal, yet provides Campion with only fragmentary evidence with which to track down the truth.  Driven by the need to exonerate Michael rather than simple get him released, Campion's task seems impossible.  He leaves no stone unturned in his efforts, and, in the end, risks his own life to reveal the true murderer.<br />I rather like the new Campion.  And the change in writing style introduces considerable depth and emotional content than was present in the more light hearted romances of the past.  Characters are more developed and accessible, as well.  Not only is \\"Flowers for the Judge\\" a great story in it's own right, it is also a portent of more wonderful tales to come.le introduces considerable depth and emotional content than was present in the more light hearted romances of the past.  Characters are more developed and accessible, as well.  Not only is \\"Flowers for the Judge\\" a great story in it's own right, it is also a portent of more wonderful tales to come.	2001-04-14
2035224:US	53082946	RMCRVE8FFLUXK	1569472092	807601624	The Last Detective	Books	4	75	86	N	N	New Directions for Lovesey	I have always had a love/hate relationship with Peter Lovesey's books for many years.  I have a large number of his novels on my shelf, mostly from the Sgt. Cribb series.  In looking over them I realized that while they were readable, there were not particularly memorable and were all somewhat unsatisfactory.  &quot;The Last Detective&quot; is a bit of a change in pace, in that it really is a notch better than the Lovesey standard.<br />Detective Superintendent Peter Diamond fluctuates between being interesting and being thoroughly unlikable.  While not anti-computer, he is quite distrustful of them, and is unhappy with their effect on police work.  As a result he has come to style himself as 'the last detective.'  His overall personality is overbearing and a bit egotistical which makes him a bit unpopular with both his co-workers and the top brass.  As a reader I found that he had his moments, but I liked his second in command, John Wigful, quite a bit better.<br />The plot, which centers on a drowned woman who turns out to be a 'retired' soap star with the personality of a rabid mink and the morals of a sociopathic rabbit.  Singularly murderable, if I say so myself.  The most prominent of the suspects are much more likeable.  In a Lovesey novel this usually means that they will be subjected to a fair amount of hectoring by the investigator, and this is no exception.  In this case, the police make a highly dubious arrest.  Detective Diamond is so disturbed by the process that he resigns his position and resolves to do some investigation on his own.<br />While the path to the true murderer is a bit complex it does not justify the length of the novel.  Pacing is often uneven.  Lovesey uses an unusual device in this story, i.e., in addition to the normal third person narrative; two large sections are done in the first person by the suspects.  This works fairly well for the narrative done by the victim's husband, Gregory Jackman.  Unfortunately, Lovesey does not do as well with Dana Didrikson, the female suspect who is entangled with Jackman.  Even if you think it's sexist to believe that women don't quite think like men, you have to concede that it is highly unlikely that Dana's narrative would be exactly like the Lovesey's, but such is the case.<br />In spite of all this criticism, 'The Last Detective' is readable.  Lovesey can craft a plot, and does a decent job with most of his characters.  It did win the 1992 Anthony Boucher Award for Best Mystery Novel, so it cetainly has redeeming qualities.  People who like Lovesey will find this their cup of tea.  Those of us who find him a bit unsatisfactory will find their opinions softened a bit, but still confirmed.well with Dana Didrikson, the female suspect who is entangled with Jackman.  Even if you think it's sexist to believe that women don't quite think like men, you have to concede that it is highly unlikely that Dana's narrative would be exactly like the Lovesey's, but such is the case.<br />In spite of all this criticism, 'The Last Detective' is readable.  Lovesey can craft a plot, and does a decent job with most of his characters.  It did win the 1992 Anthony Boucher Award for Best Mystery Novel, so it cetainly has redeeming qualities.  People who like Lovesey will find this their cup of tea.  Those of us who find him a bit unsatisfactory will find their opinions softened a bit, but still confirmed.	2001-04-13
2036122:US	53082946	R3CE3EGWKM6JG8	0786012595	970499077	Nightlife	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	True Scream Fiction	\\"Nightlife\\" is an uncanny mix of old and new as it tells its story of evil preying on the homeless and unwanted in the streets of Minneapolis.  Simon Babych, a bookstore clerk, finds himself the unexpected witness to a horrific murder when he decides to bring his homeless friend Phil some food.  He finds Phil in the process of being eaten himself, by a creature of shadow, being squeezed somehow until only a puddle of water remains.<br />Simon flees to a homeless shelter where he meets Becky Rutman, the shelter director.  Together, Simon, Becky and an group of their friends discover that what Simon saw has happened time after time.  Always, the victims come from the unwanted, those have no one to miss them.  Simon leads the hunt for a way to destroy this creature, which shares many traits with what we commonly think of as a vampire.  Inevitably, the hunters become the prey, and \\"Nightlife\\" is the tale of a battle for survival.<br />This is not only Simon's tale, but also the story of Richard Carnitch, who has hunted humans as food for several hundred years.  He has no memory of being human and has little love for us other than as sustenance and as something to torment.  For Carnitch gets as much satisfaction from the mental agonies and humiliations he causes as he does from the feeding itself.  He lacks the fangs of a traditional vampire, feeding instead through a kind of osmosis, but he shares many vampire traits.  He is outraged that his rightful prey has decided to hunt him and does not hesitate to use his powers to defend himself and take revenge.<br />Despite it's untraditional characters, Jack Ellis has written the classic monster tale, full of chases, lurking horror and unending suspense.  Ellis spends no time explaining or psychoanalyzing his creatures.  They are evil in nature, and the enjoy being that way.  Instead, he puts his efforts into making his protagonists realistic and likeable.  \\"Nightlife\\" is perfect reading for that lonely night in front of the fireplace.fireplace.	2001-04-12
2036770:US	53082946	R3F2ZHZABHDI21	0380726297	516722500	Sacred	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Nothing Sacred	With &quot;Sacred,&quot; Dennis Lehane returns to the hard-boiled, in-your-face storytelling of his first novel in this series, &quot;A Drink before the War.&quot;  The story opens with Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro in semi-retirement, trying to recover from the emotional and physical trauma of &quot;Darkness, Take My Hand.&quot;  After being followed for several days, they decide to confront their tail, only find themselves knocked out and kidnapped.  On awakening, they find themselves in the home of billionaire Trevor Stone who offers them $50,000 up front to find his daughter Desiree.  Stone has only six months to live and desperately wants to see his daughter again before he dies.<br />Not only has Desiree disappeared without a trace, Jay Becker, the detective hired to find her, is also missing.  Drawn in by their sympathy for Stone, their friendship with Becker, and the lure of $50,000, Kenzie and Gennaro decide to come out of retirement and take the case.  They manage to trace Desiree to Grief Release, Inc., a 'self-help' organization and immediately run into violent conflict with staff members.  Angie breaks into their offices and steals some diskettes that contain incriminating evidence.  It appears that Grief Release is a front organization for the Church of Truth and Revelation.  'Therapy' sessions are used to brainwash their victims into revealing extensive financial information that is then used to control them.<br />Not only did Desiree fall victim to the cult, she became involved with Jeff Price, who recruited her.  When he stole two million dollars from Grief Release, he took Desiree with him.  Soon it appears that Jeff Price and Desire Stone have fled to Tampa, Florida, with Jay Becker in hot pursuit.  Suddenly the pace picks up as their investigations in Florida lead to a roller coaster ride of death and betrayal.  The more they investigate, the more Kenzie and Gennero realize that they really can trust no one.<br />Lehane, once again, leaves no stone unturned in his efforts to baffle and astonish the reader.  Every time that you think you have the story figured, out the plot takes another new twist.  Kenzie and Gennaro wisecrack their way through on crisis after another making this a story that is impossible not to enjoy.  Another success for Dennis Lehane.stone unturned in his efforts to baffle and astonish the reader.  Every time that you think you have the story figured, out the plot takes another new twist.  Kenzie and Gennaro wisecrack their way through on crisis after another making this a story that is impossible not to enjoy.  Another success for Dennis Lehane.	2001-04-12
2037331:US	53082946	R33T8GN8NQPTTV	0886779758	755881554	The Second Summoning (The Keeper's Chronicles, No 2)	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	You Had To Have Been There...	I suppose you could think of &quot;The Second Summoning&quot; as a fairy grandmother coming of age story. Except that Claire Hansen should have come of age some time ago, she is hardly a grandmother, and rather than being a fairy, she's a Keeper (pardon the inadvertent pun). For those of you who haven't read &quot;Summon the Keeper,&quot; this makes her a sort of badness fixer par excellence - a bona fide Karmic mechanic.<br />Other key members of the cast are Diana, Claire's younger (and more powerful) sister; Dean, who Diana nearly sacrificed in the previous book; and, finally, Austin, the ineffable talking cat. There are many others who provide delightful bit parts, but it is Claire and Dean, with some considerable help from Diana, who manage who nearly manage to disrupt the world. Austin, as always, provides running commentary and never misses a straight line.<br />What did they do? Well, after a short, disastrous separation Claire and Dean return to each other with such carnal enthusiasm that they generate a huge amount of positive feelings. This would be fine, but Diana has built an unauthorized, huge happiness intensifying snowflake as a decoration for her high school Xmas party. The resulting feedback loop unleashes a giand goodness bubble that falls under the influence of Lena, one of Claire's friends. Lena just happens to be trying to manifest an angel in her bedroom at that precise moment. What does she get? No surprise here, she materializes an angel - with spiky hair, and, unexpectedly, an impressive set of, you know, things - male things.<br />If having to clean up after an impossible angel isn't enough; Claire, Diana and the rest of the crew soon have even worse to deal with. Newton's Third Law of Metaphysical Dynamics - for any flow of wonderful good that materializes in the world there is an equally awful flow of nastiness - comes into play. In a backyard in rural Canada a demon makes her appearance, complete with a really impressive set of, er, you know, female things.<br />In no time at all Toronto is a shambles and the world is headed for Armageddon. Claire and Diana to the rescue. Or they would be if they would ever stop bickering.<br />Tanya Huff is one of those rare authors who defy classification into a specific genre. Most noted for serious fantasy and an excellent vampire series, she shows in the Keeper series that she has a real flair for light fantasy as well.<br />In many ways Huff's style for these books is quite reminiscent of Terry Prattchett. Certainly, her characters are every bit as quirky and charming. And she has the same ability to navigate the thin line between humorous and silly. Hopefully, Ms. Huff will continue to write this well for many novels to come!u know, female things. <br />In no time at all Toronto is a shambles and the world is headed for Armageddon. Claire and Diana to the rescue. Or they would be if they would ever stop bickering.<br />Tanya Huff is one of those rare authors who defy classification into a specific genre. Most noted for serious fantasy and an excellent vampire series, she shows in the Keeper series that she has a real flair for light fantasy as well. <br />In many ways Huff's style for these books is quite reminiscent of Terry Prattchett. Certainly, her characters are every bit as quirky and charming. And she has the same ability to navigate the thin line between humorous and silly. Hopefully, Ms. Huff will continue to write this well for many novels to come!	2001-04-11
2040786:US	53082946	R2TX91PLZTJNRO	0944092217	916625015	Eros & Thanatos	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Sorcerer Comes of Age	I believe this is the fourth volume of Duane Michael's work to be published by Twin Palms.  This relationship has provided Michaels with a well-deserved vehicle for his creativity.  If Alan Ginsberg is the quintessential gay poet, drawing on his sexuality when needed, but never letting his work be overwhelmed by it.  Then Michaels holds the same position in the world of light.<br />&quot;Eros &amp; Thanatos\\" is a combination of verse and photography that probes love and its mortality, seeking wisdom, and, of course, peace.  The metaphysical nature of its theme is echoed in the artist's choices of printing styles and manipulations.  Often there is a sense of 'looking through a glass darkly,&quot; at some distant hermetic time.  The images are dark, with careful use of composition and focus.  Many pages are black which makes the images alternate between leaping off the page to floating delicately beneath it.<br />Michaels use of male models works perfectly for this setting.  There is nothing to offend here, the models have a quiet beauty and sensuality that blends with, rather than intrudes upon the images.  This allows Michaels to escape from the sometimes cliche-ridden atmospherics of the female figure, and leaves his innovation undiluted.<br />The poetry that frames the images is surprising.  Michaels' writing is misleadingly primitive, lacking in the slick polish that contemporary criticism seems to prefer.  Yet, the words and phrases themselves are rich in content, and touch on the myriad forms that love can experience death.  Loss, betrayal and grief all make their appearance and are expressed openly.  Nor is this mere expostulation.  Instead, Michaels has invited us to share some of his own experiences.<br />The final poem is an homage to Paul Cadmus, an important American painter, who, like Michaels, has shared his homosexuality in his art.  Indeed, a study of their images shows many common threads and a shared sense of lighting and imagery.<br />Twin Palms production qualities are, as usual, immaculate, with much attention paid to the tonal quality of the images.  I am reviewing from the limitied edition, which includes a fine slipcase.  Other than that, and the signature page, there is no difference from the regular edition.production qualities are, as usual, immaculate, with much attention paid to the tonal quality of the images.  I am reviewing from the limitied edition, which includes a fine slipcase.  Other than that, and the signature page, there is no difference from the regular edition.	2001-04-08
2042550:US	53082946	RFNW4NPTYJN33	0891901957	531304675	Death of a Ghost	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Art's Labor Lost	&quot;Death of a Ghost&quot; finds Albert Campion in attendance while the family of famous artist John Lafcadio prepares for a posthumous exhibit.  Lafcadio, irritated at the thought that another artist, Charles Tanqueray, might outlive him, provided a series of paintings to be shown one at a time, after his death.  Max Fustian, art dealer and general popinjay, has prepared a lavish event for this year's unveiling.  He is aided in this effort by Belle, Lafcadio's wife and a cast of remarkable zanies that reside in and around the Lafcadio residence.<br />No sooner does the party start than Tom Dacre, another artist is murdered when the lights suddenly go out.  Campion manages to keep his old friend Stanislaus Oates from arresting Lafcadio's daughter Linda who was Dacre's jilted lover, but now must seek a solution to what appears to be a perfect crime.  To make matters worse, another household resident is murdered by poison in mysterious fashion.  Campion begins to suspect he is facing an ingenious killer with few, if any, moral compunctions.<br />This is the type of mystery novel I think of as a `set piece.'  By that I mean that long before the end the puzzle is completely defined, the rules set out, and it is now up to the detective (and the reader) to fit the pieces together and make it work out.  In this case, almost exactly halfway through (shortly after the reader has guessed the killer) Campion half-deduces / half-intuits the criminal.  He manages to convince Oates of his conclusion, and it is now up to them to discover motive, means and proof.  This is no small task, and before the end Campion must risk his life to bring the case home.<br />This kind of writing always runs the danger of becoming an intellectual exercise or worse, boring.  Allingham's skill is such that there is no danger of this.  Instead, \\"Death of a Ghost\\" comes close to being a tour de force of characterization, which has always been Allingham's strength.  Narrative is strong as well, and the novel, while not among Allingham's very best, is a great success and an enjoyable read.he novel, while not among Allingham's very best, is a great success and an enjoyable read.	2001-04-06
2043346:US	53082946	RKQ3KAZNEYUQX	0380726289	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand: A Novel (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Horrifying Look into the Nature of the Beast	&quot;Darkness, Take My Hand&quot; is Dennis Lehane's second Kenzie and Gennaro novel.  The story starts simply, as the detectives undertake to help protect Jason, the son of a friend.  For no clear reason, it appears that a singularly unpleasant gangster has taken a dislike to Jason, a student at the local college.  Matters grow complicated quickly when they discover that the gangster in question is not the real source of the threat.<br />In trying to unravel each mystery in this, the detectives discover yet another.  The case appears linked to a string of horrifying killings that have baffled the police.  And these crimes recall the bloody work of Alec Hardiman, who was convicted 20 years previously by the expert testimony of Jason's mother.  Unfortunately, this criminal remains firmly imprisoned.  The is little doubt that somehow Hardiman is influencing events, but evidence builds that there is a team of killers at work and the body count spins out of control.<br />The horror and tension build relentlessly.  Soon Patrick Kenzie realizes that his own loved ones are also intended victims.  Together, he and Gennaro struggle to salvage what they can.  In the final analysis, though, none of the survivors will escape unscathed.  This is noir fiction at it's grimmest, delivered with spellbinding intensity by an exceptional writer.<br />The book is populated by vivid characters, good and evil.  The narrative is terse, and perfect for this kind of fiction.  The dialogue between Kenzie and Gennaro sparkles with wry wit that keeps events from overwhelming the reader.  I picked up the &quot;Darkness, Take My Hand&quot; to read as a break from some more academic reading, and was literally unable to keep from finishing the book.  Lehane's writing style is reminiscent of Andrew Vachss and every bit as good.  This is a six star novel in a five star world!	2001-04-06
2043551:US	53082946	R39IKVSUGL3AJD	0451458117	425528741	When the Cold Wind Blows (Black Oak 5)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A Classic Spooky Tale	Fifth in the Black Oak series, \\"When the Cold Wind Blows\\" is a bit of a tour de force.  Ethan Proctor, head of Black Oak Investigations is noted for his interest in cases that somehow involve creatures and forces greater than natural.  For most of the volumes he has been wrapped up in the search Taylor Blaine's daughter.  It is a quest that has been fruitless, and finally cut short by Blaine's other heir's<br />Proctor has been hibernating at his headquarters when discovers that the hunt is back on.  Simultaneously he receives a request from a friend of his father's asking him to come down to a small town north of Atlanta to look into the possibility of a werewolf.  The hook in this request is that the writer claims to have spotted one of Blaine's daughter's friends, who disappeared with her, in the same town.<br />Burline is classic deep South, complete with a murky swamp and a series of brutal killings that might have been done by a werewolf or maybe by something that thought that's what it was.  In any case, even the man who called him down has fallen victim to the killer, leaving no clues behind.  Confronted with a rising body count, a hostile police department and a town full of strange characters it is all that Proctor and his crew of investigators can do to get to the bottom of the mystery.<br />The story is full of scary devices including a hunt through the swamp and the intervention of a witch.  The ending takes several unexpected turns, and it will be the rare reader that puzzles out the story before Proctor finds the villain.  Grant's prose is professional and business-like, lending that story an easily believable narrative style with sparse, effective dialog.  The book is a treat and is readable even if you haven't been following the series.	2001-04-05
2044335:US	53082946	R15WSZ83U8QXBZ	0441005748	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	51	61	N	N	Significant Change of Pace	I have been a fan of this series for some time, and so I find this a very difficult book to review.  To me, this book represents a shift in genre.  It is also possible that I simply mistook the genre I though they were in.  Originally, Lauren Hamilton wrote what I would call vampire adventure stories.  I loved them, and love them still.  Hamilton has tremendous writing abilities.  Her heroine, Anita Blake, was a superb job of characterization.  Dialog and narrative were sparkling.  And, truth be told, this is still quite true.<br />But these are no longer simply vampire adventure.  The sexual theme that has previously created some interesting character dynamics has suddenly become a strong, primary focus.  The book is ostensibly about Anita coming to the rescue of Richard, her werewolf more-than-friend, but it is much more about Anita's changing sexuality.  This is quite intense, and really makes this book into a kind of tough girl's romance story.  There's nothing wrong with that, just not what I expected.<br />If you are considering trying this out as your first Hamilton novel, get some of the earlier volumes and read those first.  Hamilton starts right in the action, and too many of the references will be confusing without some background.<br />Is this a well-written book?  Yes.  But I think the focus on sex (and I'm not talking missionary position stuff here) weakens Anita's character.  Hamilton seems still a bit awkward with this material, but makes up for a lack of slickness with a tremendous amount of enthusiasm.<br />Romance fanatics and those who are not put off by a lot of sexuality will no doubt love this book.  Those who are a bit more timid and just wanted a great vampire/monster novel need to approach Blue Moon with more cautious expectations.	2001-04-05
2048642:US	53082946	REFV24T0MWG6A	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	No Darker Justice	I'm a latecomer to Dennis Lehane's series about Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro, a private detective partnership working in the worn down city of Dorchester, Mass.  For some reason the books never made it onto my radar screen until lately.  Despite its popularity, I was completely unprepared for the power of &quot;A Drink before the War.&quot;  It is with a great deal of glee that I look forward to reading the rest.<br />When several Massachusetts politicians offer Kenzie and Gennaro what sounds like a simple job of tracking down the office cleaning woman so as to retrieve some stolen documents it sounds like a walk in the park.  Little did the partners suspect that the trail would lead them past the theft into an ever-darkening nightmare of racism, lies, murder, and crimes far worse.  For Jenna Evangeline is no simple thief.<br />Once Kenzie tracks Jenna down he quickly realizes that taking the documents was no simple act of theft, but that Jenna was acting out of some inner need for justice.  Before she can show him the documents Jenna is gunned down horribly in the streets with Kenzie as a witness.  Kenzie and Gennaro find themselves entangled in a confrontation between two gang lords, Socia who was her ex-husband, and Roland who was their son.  Buried in their enmity is a terrible tragedy.<br />Because of the light, comic banter that often takes place between Kenzie and Gennaro there is a strong temptation to compare them to Robert Parker's Spencer.  But there are far darker currents in Lehane's work.  A violent, abusive father has permanently scarred Kenzie, and Gennaro is trapped in a marriage with a wife beater.  Indeed, many of their fellow character are similarly broken, and the tone of &quot;A Drink before the War&quot; is more reminiscent of Andrew Vachss than Parker.<br />This is a powerful book, with a compelling story.  Lehane's writing is eminently readable and, as I've already indicated, his dialog is superbly crafted.  There is, perhaps, a bit too much preaching for my taste, but this hardly is a defect.  My only quandary is that, while &quot;A Drink before the War&quot; is a five star piece of writing, I already know that the series gets even better.  How am I going to rate the rest???oo much preaching for my taste, but this hardly is a defect.  My only quandary is that, while &quot;A Drink before the War&quot; is a five star piece of writing, I already know that the series gets even better.  How am I going to rate the rest???	2001-04-01
2050889:US	53082946	R1723AEIQTDC29	1565049705	798953268	Judge (Vampire: The Masquerade-Predator & Prey)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A  Missed Opportunity	After promising myself not to follow this series after my review of the fist volume &quot;Vampire,&quot; I broke down and ordered this, the next in the series.  Why?  I have become a fan of Gherbod Fleming and decided that, if anyone could rescue this series from a weak start, Fleming could.<br />I have no idea who Fleming really is.  He has chosen as pseudonym the name of one of a pair of 11th century Gherbods one of who was married to queen Mathilde, or was the first Earl of Chester or was the brother-in-law of William de Warren.  I have no idea what this has to do with vampires, but apparently it has a lot to do with the British royal line, which was getting a bit complex in those days.  Make of it what you will.<br />In any case, &quot;Judge&quot; tells the story of a not particularly appealing automotive executive, Douglas Sands, who is having an affair and planning to leave his wife, who he blames for the death of his son (after all, she was the one who wanted the swimming pool).  He is extraordinarily self-indulgent, headstrong, pays no attention to anyone's advice, and in no way resembles a hero.  Rather, he is the typical corporate middle manager who you would expect to find reading 'The 60 Minute Sexist.'<br />Sands suddenly discovers that he can see the supernatural and realizes that his mistress is being stalked by a 'something.'  In the process of finding out what it was Sands leaps naked from a third story window in pursuit and winds up in the hospital with his secret completely blown.  Did I mention that Sands is eternally injuring himself?  He winds up living at the house of Albert Tinsley, who is quite a bit more sympathetic.  It turns out that Douglas, like Albert, is a 'hunter,' who has special skills for taking out the supernaturally evil.<br />Douglas meets several more hunters, who have been protecting his ex-wife and ex-mistress while Sands falls out of windows and perpetually manages to injure himself.  As the action builds, Douglas manages, by sheer thoughtlessness, to cause the deaths of two fellow hunters and the injury of a third.  All in the effort to take out a single vampire.  You can't really blame just Douglas, it turns out that this is the group's first vampire.  And they lack any sense of teamwork.  If these guys don't get a lot better at 'hunting' they will never last until Volume 6.<br />If anything makes this book work it is Fleming's writing.  He manages to keep up a good pace and some chilling moments.  His dialog is crisp and several of the characters are believable.  He is clearly the best writer in White Wolf's stable.  What White Wolf and Fleming failed to notice is that much of the plot would be comic if it wasn't so ponderously serious. Come to think of it, Volume 1 also has this same problem with pretentious seriousness.  If only they had chosen to exploit this vein, this could have been an unusual and inventive book instead of yet another piece of OK vampire fiction.<br />Now that I've inadvertently offended every goth fan in the universe, I'm prepared for a shower of 'not helpfuls.'  But honestly, guys, with so much good, creative materials coming out of goth culture you have to draw a line somewhere.  Just because vampires tend to be pompous doesn't mean that vampire stories can be funny and horrifying at the same time.  This is more of a challenge for an author, but I believe Fleming is up to it.by sheer thoughtlessness, to cause the deaths of two fellow hunters and the injury of a third.  All in the effort to take out a single vampire.  You can't really blame just Douglas, it turns out that this is the group's first vampire.  And they lack any sense of teamwork.  If these guys don't get a lot better at 'hunting' they will never last until Volume 6.<br />If anything makes this book work it is Fleming's writing.  He manages to keep up a good pace and some chilling moments.  His dialog is crisp and several of the characters are believable.  He is clearly the best writer in White Wolf's stable.  What White Wolf and Fleming failed to notice is that much of the plot would be comic if it wasn't so ponderously serious. Come to think of it, Volume 1 also has this same problem with pretentious seriousness.  If only they had chosen to exploit this vein, this could have been an unusual and inventive book instead of yet another piece of OK vampire fiction.<br />Now that I've inadvertently offended every goth fan in the universe, I'm prepared for a shower of 'not helpfuls.'  But honestly, guys, with so much good, creative materials coming out of goth culture you have to draw a line somewhere.  Just because vampires tend to be pompous doesn't mean that vampire stories can be funny and horrifying at the same time.  This is more of a challenge for an author, but I believe Fleming is up to it.	2001-03-30
2051336:US	53082946	R39J2CKTZGBVT	0786013109	499896225	Eternity	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Wecome to Eternity	I ordered a copy of Tamara Thorne's \\"Eternity\\" more or less as an afterthought.  Good horror is hard to find and it was time to try someone new.  Little did I know that I had just signed up on a crazy roller coaster ride through the mountains of North California chasing the trail of one of the most prolific serial killers of modern times.<br />Zach Tully has recently been recruited to the post of sheriff in the obscure town of Eternity.  He is leaving behind a successful career as a homicide detective and the horrifying images of his wife and child who were slaughtered by the `Backdoor Man.\\"  He arrives hoping to find peace and forgetfulness but finds himself buried neck deep in strangeness.<br />Eternity has several different flavors of residents.  There are ordinary town folk, tourists, refugees from the local mental home, and `lifers', who seem to have been around forever.  In addition, lights and UFO's appear around Icehouse Mountain, the local peak, which also sports a stone circle around which considerable weirdness seems to happen.<br />Eternity can also boast of the highest murder rate north of San Francisco.  If records can be believed, there have been streaks of serial killings for almost 150 years.  Tully hardly has time to get out of his car before his is confronted with an almost daily cycle of gruesome killings.  He also meets Kate McPherson and her son Josh, who are being menaced by this killer and a possessive ex-husband.<br />Thus the scene is set for a tale of escalating surprises.  Thorne proves that even the oldest serial killer theme can be given interesting twists, including a killer who delights in adding whole levels of meaning to `not a leg to stand on,' and `in one ear and out the other.'  As an author she has a pleasant readable style, which often reveals a wry sense of humor.  Her characters, whether normal, eccentric or horrible are believable and entertaining.  I am looking forward to Thorne's other books.	2001-03-29
2052647:US	53082946	R3GSRK5C01UFY7	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The Magnificent Seven	When Spencer first talks to Mary Lou Buckman about investigating the death of her husband he knew it would be a tough job.  After all, the suspects were a gang of 40 ne'er-do-wells living in the hills around Potshot, Arizona.  These western gangsters had recently been organized by a sociopath known as 'The Preacher,' and were terrorizing the town.<br />A visit to Potshot Spencer that there is something rotten going one.  The town, nestled in the mountains was a Mecca for those suffering from urban flight syndrome.  Aside from the Preacher and his 40 thieves Potshot's resident population includes a suspiciously inactive police force, a non-productive film producer and a real estate salesman with a way oversexed wife.  Spencer quickly discovers that it isn't just Bebe the real estate women who is oversexed.  It's seems that almost all the cast has had some history with each other.<br />Realizing this was far more than a one-man job Spencer heads back to Boston to assemble a militia of tough guys that reads like the Robert B. Parker hall of fame.  Naturally Hawk is included, and Vinnie, another Boston professional, Tedy Sapp from Georgia, Bernard J. Fortunato, and finally Chollo and Bobby Horse from Los Angeles.  This adds up to seven, and if you are getting the feeling that Parker is parodying The Magnificent Seven a bit, you might not be wrong.<br />In addition, while investigating Mary Lou in Los Angeles Spencer is menaced by two employees of Morris Tannenbaum, one of the big West Coast gangster chiefs.  It's pretty clear that all is not what it seems, but Spencer is unable to resolve his suspicions.  Before he does so, we will be treated to star-crossed lovers, a menacing cartel, and, lest we forget, the gunfight at the not-quite-OK Corral<br />Parker specializes in terse, pithy dialogue and plenty of often violent action.  Spencer, whose heritage includes Marlowe and Travis McGee, is at his best as the in-your-face, wisecracking detective who is also perfectly capable of quoting poetry and maintaining a tender relationship with Susan, his psychologist girlfriend.<br />In &quot;Potshot&quot; the continuous by-play between the seven heroes adds sparkle to an already exceptional story.  I've read all of Parker's Spencer novels, and this will rank as one of the most memorable.  Certainly it's one of the most entertaining.  Parker has again managed to write a rich and compelling novel in a genre noted more for its excesses than its quality of writing.apable of quoting poetry and maintaining a tender relationship with Susan, his psychologist girlfriend.  <br />In &quot;Potshot&quot; the continuous by-play between the seven heroes adds sparkle to an already exceptional story.  I've read all of Parker's Spencer novels, and this will rank as one of the most memorable.  Certainly it's one of the most entertaining.  Parker has again managed to write a rich and compelling novel in a genre noted more for its excesses than its quality of writing.	2001-03-28
2053962:US	53082946	R2F8CBJV7MINQ8	0786707550	235133371	The Fear Sign (Allingham, Margery)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Albert The Hereditary Paladin	Travelling through France, Guffy Randall is surprised to find his old friend Campion and several of their cohorts masquerading as minor nobility.  Quickly sucked into the plot, Guffy discovers that Campion is seeking various pieces of evidence that would prove that a tiny piece of very valuable coastline really belongs to England.  Hardly have they begun when they discover that the real answer to the mystery is closer to home, at Pontisbright in West Sussex.  Off the crew goes to rescue the evidence before it falls into the hands of their devious opponent Brett Savanake.<br />\\"The Fear Sign\\" combines all the key elements that that Margery Allingham uses to create her classic British adventure stories starring our universal uncle, Albert Campion.  Aside from Campion's company of young British upper-class, the novel also stars Amanda, Mary and Hal Fitton (plus Aunt Hatt), who are the possible (and possible illegitimate) Pontisbright heirs, a supporting cast of appropriately quirky villages and a complete host of villains.<br />In short order Guffy is in love with Mary, Campion has found a partner in Amanda and even Lugg has a new buddy in Scatty Williams.  When Amanda shows Campion an old verse carved into a hidden tree bole the chase is on.<br />&quot;If Pontisbright would crowned be, three strange happenings must he see.  The diamond must be rent in twain before he wear his crown again.  Thrice must the mighty bell be tolled before he shall the scepter hold, and ere he to his birthright come stricken must be Malplaquet drum.&quot;<br />With this clue in hand Campion sets off to save the kingdom and reinstate the Fittons to their title, followed close at hand by Brett Savanake.  Then, no soon do they start their quest, but Campion disappears, leaving Guffy and the rest to proceed on their own.<br />Before the mystery is solved readers will find themselves participating in a failed museum theft, listening to the world's first hi-fi system, and invited to a conjuration of the devil.  As is often the case, Allingham provides a continuous series of distractions to bemuse the reader, culminating in the classic chase and confrontation between the forces of good and evil.<br />While this style of plot is an Allingham regular, she once again manages to flesh it out with enough novelty, fascinating characters and rip-roaring action to keep the reader fascinated.  Like all Campion stories it never fails to entice and delight.of the devil.  As is often the case, Allingham provides a continuous series of distractions to bemuse the reader, culminating in the classic chase and confrontation between the forces of good and evil.<br />While this style of plot is an Allingham regular, she once again manages to flesh it out with enough novelty, fascinating characters and rip-roaring action to keep the reader fascinated.  Like all Campion stories it never fails to entice and delight.	2001-03-27
2054450:US	53082946	R1ZTGN9TIPPA51	0786701692	430307507	Police at the Funeral (Allingham, Margery)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	A Different Curriculum for Cambridge	Coincidence and madness are the twin themes of &quot;Police at the Funeral.&quot; The book starts out when a planned meeting between Campion and Joyce Blount turns into an accidental meeting with Inspector Stanislaus Oates and a peculiarly unpleasant fellow who takes one look at Joyce and flees. From there the tale follows a twisted path.<br />Joyce is the fianc&eacute;e of Marcus Featherstone, one of Campion's oldest friends. She lives with her great aunt Caroline, a pair of unpleasant uncles and an equally depressing brace of aunts. Uncle Andrew, a singularly miserable fellow, has vanished and Joyce has come to Campion for help. In short order Andrew is found murdered in such a fashion as to implicate his heavy drinking brother William. Campion's presence is commanded by Great Aunt Caroline and he is settled into Socrates Close, their Cambridge home, to act as detective, defender and general factotum.<br />Yes, I said commanded. Great Aunt Caroline Faraday is a true Victorian 'grand dame.' For most of her life she has ruled Socrates Close and much of Cambridge's social life. Even now, in her 90's she is a force to be reckoned with. She has no patience with her dependents, who share little of her and her departed husband's brilliance. She sees no alternative to the ministrations of Campion, with whose mysterious but illustrious family she is well acquainted.<br />It will take the death of one of Joyce's aunts and yet another fatality before Campion is able to meet her expectations. In doing so he will brush with evil at its most petty and spiteful. The lightheartedness that Campion uses to cover his true feeling entertains and delights us, but is never completely able to dispel the pall that lies upon the great house until the very last, when he once again finds a way through.<br />I believe this is the first time Allingham puts aside her Chinese fire drill device and settles in to write true detective fiction. Her talent reveals itself as quite capable of handling the slower pace, which allows here more time to develop a remarkable cast of characters. These are never guilty of tediousness despite any other flaws they chose to reveal.<br />It is a shame that Allingham's books are often allowed to go in and out of print. Too often, Campion aficionados are condemned to rummaging in used bookstalls to fill a gap in their collection. Luckily, most of us like to rummage. Police at the Funeral is a wonderful tale that is reminiscent of Marsh's &quot;Death of a Peer,&quot; although the Faradays are nowhere as near as appealing as Marsh's Lampreys. Except for Great Aunt Caroline, of course, who is a perfect treat. I can only tell you this tale is well worth digging for.lower pace, which allows here more time to develop a remarkable cast of characters. These are never guilty of tediousness despite any other flaws they chose to reveal.<br />It is a shame that Allingham's books are often allowed to go in and out of print. Too often, Campion aficionados are condemned to rummaging in used bookstalls to fill a gap in their collection. Luckily, most of us like to rummage. Police at the Funeral is a wonderful tale that is reminiscent of Marsh's &quot;Death of a Peer,&quot; although the Faradays are nowhere as near as appealing as Marsh's Lampreys. Except for Great Aunt Caroline, of course, who is a perfect treat. I can only tell you this tale is well worth digging for.	2001-03-27
2056637:US	53082946	R2RNF61I77H6K0	0451202538	767468281	Hangman	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Suspended Judgement	\\"Hangman\\" is the eighth novel written under the pseudonym of Michael Slade.  Jay Clarke, a regular member of the Slade team, is joined in this novel by his daughter Rebecca.  Together, they have crafted another imaginative and gruesome tale of murder and suspense for this series.<br />Shifting back and forth from Seattle to Vancouver the book covers the gory trail of a serial killer, who hangs victims and cuts off increasing numbers of their limbs (in any order).  At each crime scene the detectives, Maddy Thorne of the Seattle PD and Zinc Chandler of the RCMP, find a game of hangman drawn in the victim's blood.  Supporting players include Jeffrey Kline - an ambitious Vancouver lawyer, Ethan Shaw - his partner, Alexis Hunt - crime writer and Zinc's long time lover, as well as countless others.  These are drawn with gripping detail and a sure hand by the Slade team.<br />Nothing is what it seems in a Michael Slade novel.  \\"Hangman\\" is no exception.  Expect baroque, twisting plots and convolute interplay between the characters.  Personalities are discarded like masks at a Halloween party where the entertainment is unpredictable pastiches of horrific violence and brutality.  Another reviewer once wrote that reading a Slade novel is like \\"literary bungee jumping with Agatha Christie's bastard son.\\"  This was not an overstatement.<br />Another big ingredient in \\"Hangman\\" and other Slade novels is and immense amount of historical detail.  Expect to learn a great deal about the history of hanging, miscarried justice, and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police as a backdrop to the main action of the story.  You will leave this book with such odd tidbits as the origin of the phrases \\"toeing the line,\\" and \\"red herring.\\"  Occasionally the Clarkes get a bit carried away by their researches, but for the most part they enhance the reading experience.<br />The main theme of both the murders and the book itself is the ways in which the legal system can be twisted for self-serving aims.  Jay Clarke, as a trial lawyer with considerable experience, fills the book with tales of justice gone awry that are every bit as chilling as the murders themselves.  In the end we are drawn into the inevitable question, \\"who guards the guards.\\"  Expect to be astounded not just by the fictions that make this an outstanding suspense novel, but by the facts that were the inspiration for its creation.Jay Clarke, as a trial lawyer with considerable experience, fills the book with tales of justice gone awry that are every bit as chilling as the murders themselves.  In the end we are drawn into the inevitable question, \\"who guards the guards.\\"  Expect to be astounded not just by the fictions that make this an outstanding suspense novel, but by the facts that were the inspiration for its creation.	2001-03-25
2057102:US	53082946	R2ILUWMUVQK2PK	0671017128	822612863	The Harvest (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Into Every Generation ....	I am a latecomer to the Buffy mythos.  The show had already been on TV for a year when I finally rented the videotape.  And it wasn't until the end of the second year that I started watching it regularly.  As a result, there is a huge gap in my knowledge of Buffy lore, which can only be made up by studying the ancient tomes.  &quot;The Harvest&quot; has eluded me for some time.<br />One of the problems with being a middle-aged Buffy fan is that your friends look at you strangely when you mention it.  Not only did I have no idea how Buffy got to Sunnydale, how she met the rest of the Scooby gang, etc., I had no one to ask about it.  &quot;The Harvest&quot; is a fun, easily read book that covers the first episode perfectly.  For me, it brought a lot of the puzzle pieces together.  It lacks much of the pain and anguish of the Buffy of the later years and so is quite a bit of plain good fun.  Buffy's quips at vampires seem quippier and Xander's antics still have their charm.  Willow's honesty is winning, and Cordelia is, well, Cordelia is Cordelia.  Giles doesn't get as much play as he should, but that may be a bit more characterization than it's fair to expect from an 146 page retelling of a TV episode.<br />As a matter of fact, it's amazing just how fresh this book is, even after countless Buffy books and episodes.  We get to follow Buffy as she makes new friends and discovers that she didn't quite manage to leave Slaying behind.  Right of the bat (bad pun) she is embroiled in the battle with the master that spills over into many episodes.  This is necessary reading for beginning Buffyites.  Be prepared for entertainment, suspense and a whopping good finish.	2001-03-24
2061887:US	53082946	R1DCIUPHI72M3W	0380731223	800187385	Summer of the Dragon	Books	5	80	80	N	Y	Peters' Power Strikes Again	This delightful confection was originally published in 1979.  You might expect that 20+ years would date it a bit, but it manages to retain its entertainment value full force.  This is a credit to Elizabeth Peters, who popularized the humorous mystery story in the U.S. and remains its undisputed mistress.<br />Desperate to find a summer job that takes her away from her beloved, but impossible, parents, D.J. Abbott snaps up a job working for Hank Hunnicut.  Hank is an extremely wealthy businessman who has a weakness for crackpot theories and spiritual hokum.  D.J. finds herself surrounded by a herd of not quite harmless enthusiasts and practitioners, a treasure hunter, another young (and good-looking) anthropologist, the ineffable Hank himself, and an immense amount of desert.<br />D.J.'s immediate problem is finding out what it was that Hank needed a physical anthropologist for, but she is distracted from this by an infinite supply of food, several attempts to drug her, some sabotage and, finally, Hank's kidnapping.  The excitement mounts as she unravels the tangled threads and identifies the culprit.<br />D.J. serves as narrator of the book and Peters gives her a charming style that sees everything from its humorous side, including her own failings and weaknesses.  Using this device Peters creates a perfect example of summer or vacation reading.  D.J. is a type that was once referred to as an 'uppity woman.'  She is more truthful than accommodating, which catapults her into many hilarious confrontations.<br />To top of this tidbit, Peters' Ph.D. in Egyptology from the University of Chicago's Oriental Institute stands her in good stead, as she manages to mix her sense of humor with a wealth of interesting facts.<br />It would be unfair to compare this book to Peters Amanda Peabody series.  The latter are, for the most part, the work of a maturer artist.  By no means heavyweight, they do have 'meat' and depth to them.  But this book has standing and value on its own, and it is our good fortune that Avon has chosen to reissue it.n, and it is our good fortune that Avon has chosen to reissue it.	2001-03-20
2063900:US	53082946	R1GLYNYP3Y05Q	158234132X	906848148	Sherlock Holmes: The Missing Years; The Adventures of the Great Detective in India and Tibet	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Not All Beer and Skittles	&quot;Sherlock Holmes - The Missing Years&quot; was originally published under the title &quot;The Mandala of Sherlock Holmes&quot; in India, where it enjoyed considerable success.  Amazon.com actually still lists the book under that title as well as the new one.  This is not a translation, English is a popular publication language in India, especially when international distribution is planned.<br />The writer, Jamyang Norbu is an exiled Tibetan who is active in the Tibetan independence movement based at the enclave at Dharamsala.  Along with being one of Tibet's best known modern writers he is noted for his outspoken criticism of Chinese actions in Tibet and his discussions of Tibetan realities.<br />I am telling you all this to prepare you for what is a most unusual book.  Ostensibly, &quot;The Missing Years&quot; is a perfect example of the modern Holmesian canon.  The author, tracking down the sparse record of Holmes hegira to India and Tibet after the death of Moriarty, discovers a link between Holmes and Hurree Chandar Mookerjee.  Mookerjee was a Bengali spy who appears in Rudyard Kipling's &quot;Kim.&quot;  He, in turn, was based on a real life Indian spy.  Norbu makes contact with Mookerjee's heir, but is unable to find and material.  When an earthquake shatters a wall on the estate the inevitable tin box is found.  The remainder of the story is Mookerjee's tale of Holmes' adventures in the Orient.<br />The plot starts with Holmes' arrival in Bombay, where in short order he befriends Mookerjee and is confronted by a man murdered in a mysterious method that caused him to bleed to death from every poor.  In solving this brief puzzle Holmes comes to realize that Moriarty's old companions are hunting for him, intent on revenge.  Holmes first flees to Simla, the summer capital, but becomes fascinated with the idea of making a pilgrimage to Lhasa to meet the Dalai Lama.<br />At that time the incursion of a non-Tibetan into Lhasa was strictly forbidden, but despite continuous protestations from his advisors and companions Holmes was determined and set off on his voyage, accompanied by Mookerjee.  This voyage and its eventual end are the core tale of the book.<br />The first remarkably thing the reader will notice about this tale is that Norbu is a master of the English language.  In the first 20 or so pages he manages to write well in modern English, Victorian English, the English of the Raj and in the peculiar English dialect which one might expect of an educated Bengali who is a dedicated servant of the British Imperium (Mookerjee).  Indeed, Mookerjee, the babu who is the Watson of this piece keeps uttering lines like &quot;By Jove, Mr. Holmes, you will appreciate the irrevocability of my position&quot; and &quot;Sir, a visit to Thibet is not all beer and skittles.&quot;  I'm still trying to figure out if Norbu is serious, pulling my leg, or making some social commentary.<br />Holmes is portrayed perfectly, both in his character and his use of his deductive faculties.  Norbu does not fail to take up several of Holmes' defects as well in particular his somewhat grating egotism and his drug use.  Holmes proves a quick study, inhaling vast amounts of knowledge about Indian and Tibetan culture.  One the lighter side, Holmes once again undertakes to decorate a wall with bullets, this time spelling the Indian mantra &quot;OM.&quot;<br />As I mentioned, Norbu is deeply involved in the Tibetan Liberation.  As such, it is no surprise to find the omens and portents of Tibet's troubles to come in the book at hand.  Tibet in 1892 was an isolated country with few supporting friends.  The Chinese wanted to take control of Tibet even then, and were very much the villains of the piece, deeply enmeshed in Tibetan politics.  Without the 13th Dalai Lama, whose life it is Holmes' destiny to save, Tibet would have crumbled under imperial China's thumb.  Seventy years later Tibet would fall finally to the Chines Communists and not are a minority in their own country.  Tibetan society is now preserved outside of Tibet, in such places as Dharamsala.<br />The final factor in &quot;The Missing Years&quot; is the intermingling of Holmesian science and logic with Tibetan mysticism and magic.  In modern days, additions to the canon have occasionally crossed the line into fantasy and horror, often with good effect.  The shift from science to spirit occurs swiftly in this book and some old traditionalists may take exception.<br />I, for one, found the story quite entertaining.  All the different levels work well together, producing a tale that sometimes feels as if it was co-written by Conan Doyle, Rudyard Kipling and Sax Rohmer.  The ending leaves plenty of space for continuation.  Norbu is a master storyteller, and I hope he is moved by his success to carry on with Holmes' adventures in the Orient.ty in their own country.  Tibetan society is now preserved outside of Tibet, in such places as Dharamsala.<br />The final factor in &quot;The Missing Years&quot; is the intermingling of Holmesian science and logic with Tibetan mysticism and magic.  In modern days, additions to the canon have occasionally crossed the line into fantasy and horror, often with good effect.  The shift from science to spirit occurs swiftly in this book and some old traditionalists may take exception.  <br />I, for one, found the story quite entertaining.  All the different levels work well together, producing a tale that sometimes feels as if it was co-written by Conan Doyle, Rudyard Kipling and Sax Rohmer.  The ending leaves plenty of space for continuation.  Norbu is a master storyteller, and I hope he is moved by his success to carry on with Holmes' adventures in the Orient.	2001-03-19
2065815:US	53082946	RY9KGGWP51DA2	0375411216	694000010	Dead and Gone: A Burke Novel (Burke Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	...A Dish Best Eaten Cold	&quot;You know what it takes to sit across the table from a man, listen to him talk, look into his eyes...and then blow his brains all over the wall paper?  Nothing.  And the more of that you have, the easier it is.&quot;<br />With that introduction, Andrew Vachss starts the reader on a furious journey of evil and its legacy.  Burke, Vachss' long time antihero, has been tricked into carrying out a kidnapping payoff that suddenly turns into a professional hit - on him.  Burke and his partner defend themselves valiantly, but inevitably they fail.  Burke is left a shattered hulk with a bullet in his head, and his closest companion is killed.<br />Amazingly, Burke survives.  Driven by a thirst for revenge, and helped by his friends, he overcomes the hospital, the police, his wounds, and partial blindness.  Once recovered, using the appearance of his death as a cover, Burke begins a hunt that will take you from New York to Portland, Oregon.  It is a journey like no other Burke has taken, and it is not certain whether transformation or death lay at the end of it.  Gradually the mystery is unraveled.  In Burke's world nothing is ever quite how it appears, and revenge turns into retribution.<br />Andrew Vachss' books always leave the reader suspended between the excitement and fascination of a well-told tale and genuine horror at the monsters that stalk through them.  Even Burke's associates and friends are monstrous in their nature.  Michelle, Mole, the Prof and other long time friends are all here.  In addition you will find many new characters.  Rune, a fellow refugee from an institution, who is a brilliant genius on a futile quest searching for the parents he never had.  And Gem, a Cambodian woman who struggles to help Burke find a way to love again.  Vachss populates his novels with the Children of the Secret, Victims of child abuse and worse, bent forever by their nightmares.  In Vachss' books the victims, the monsters and those that struggle against them are all touched by this plague.<br />This is a very different Burke than we are used to.  Deeply focussed and haunted by the events surrounding his 'death', Burke must face his own vulnerability and decide whether the nothing, the Zero, will consume him or whether he will find another way to change.  In either case, the Burke we know will become 'dead and gone.'<br />Vachss books are not easy to read.  This is true noir fiction, true horror.  Because it is focused on Burke's need for revenge for most of the book, Dead and Gone actually seems more accessible than most.  Perhaps Burke as a victim is easier to deal with than some others that have appeared in this series.  Vachss' writing style is sparse and compelling, and his pacing is superb, in what may be his best novel yet.<br />For those who are new to this author, Andrew Vachss has had a long background dealing with and working for the victims of child abuse.  His is currently a lawyer in private practice that specializes in these cases.  He manages to carry this agenda into his books without giving into the temptation to preach or rant.  Instead, he presents the horror of the crime and the pain and nobility of it's victims, letting them speak for themselves.  These are incredibly strong novels, expect to find yourself changed in the reading.  Not merely mystery or suspense, Vachss' books are in a genre by themselves.hed by this plague.<br />This is a very different Burke than we are used to.  Deeply focussed and haunted by the events surrounding his 'death', Burke must face his own vulnerability and decide whether the nothing, the Zero, will consume him or whether he will find another way to change.  In either case, the Burke we know will become 'dead and gone.'<br />Vachss books are not easy to read.  This is true noir fiction, true horror.  Because it is focused on Burke's need for revenge for most of the book, Dead and Gone actually seems more accessible than most.  Perhaps Burke as a victim is easier to deal with than some others that have appeared in this series.  Vachss' writing style is sparse and compelling, and his pacing is superb, in what may be his best novel yet.<br />For those who are new to this author, Andrew Vachss has had a long background dealing with and working for the victims of child abuse.  His is currently a lawyer in private practice that specializes in these cases.  He manages to carry this agenda into his books without giving into the temptation to preach or rant.  Instead, he presents the horror of the crime and the pain and nobility of it's victims, letting them speak for themselves.  These are incredibly strong novels, expect to find yourself changed in the reading.  Not merely mystery or suspense, Vachss' books are in a genre by themselves.	2001-03-17
2071001:US	53082946	R29DQGP3HQJUQW	0595136168	27240681	North Coast Gothic: A Grim Fairy Tale	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Pulp Fiction in Cleveland.	Hopefully Amazon will have fixed this charming novel's classification by the time you are reading this, but just in case, this is not a horror story, or even a suspense story, or a mystery.  It is, however, a marvelous tale of growing up gothic in Cleveland.<br />Tom, the narrator tells the story of his experiences as he approaches his thirtieth year. He is a goth by choice, but he is also the owner of a publishing company and a loyal son and friend.  By no means is he stereotypical, nor are his compatriots, all of whom share his own search for identify.<br />The largest part of the story is about his loss of one relationship and the redefinition of several others.  It isn't the best of times for Tom, but in reflection, perhaps it is.  As he faced crises and worked through his feelings I was charmed and heartened by his willingness to lean into to things and hold onto the good parts.  In the end we find that Tom has maintained his identity even as he has flexed and changed. It is an unexpectedly positive novel for one about goths; not that it doesn't have its share of grim stuff.<br />The writing is absolutely crystalline.  This is Crowley's first novel, but I honestly hope he goes on to write more.  The characters, as crazy as some are, all ring true and I was quickly absorbed into the story.  Considering I was expecting a horror story (it does use the work vampire in the blurb) I am surprised how much I enjoyed the book.<br />If you are interested in an interesting and moving story of a lifestyle that is really the modern version of the beats, read this book.  If you enjoy a straightforward, coming of age / love story, but this book.  If you like to occasionally end a book smiling, read ...  You know.	2001-03-13
2072952:US	53082946	R2V6C1ZVMK4SD9	0380705729	766369651	The Gyrth Chalice Mystery	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One of Allingham's Finest!	&quot;The Gyrth Chalice Mystery&quot; was the first Allingham mystery I read.  At that time I was the same age Allingham was when she wrote it (despite there being several wars in between).  I was immediately taken with the story with its heady mix of adventure, English snobbery, humor and the supernatural.  When I was done reading I was a British mystery addict and an eternal fan of Albert Campion, Allingham's detective.<br />I am much older now, and this is the third or fourth time if reread this novel.  I can only report that it gets better with age.  Unlike some authors whose work is best remembered rather than reread, Margery Allingham's works are every bit as much fun now as they were then.  Perhaps the secret of their long popularity is that they are the highest order of entertainment, full of adventure and humor.<br />In &quot;The Gyrth Chalice Mystery&quot; Campion's assignment is the protection of the ancient Gyrth chalice from theft by a nefarious ring of art collectors.  The secret of the chalice is passed from fathers to sons on their 25th birthday, and this is the time that the chalice is most vulnerable.  Campion must first track down the current heir, Percival, and bring him home for the ceremony.  No sooner is this accomplished when Percival's somewhat flaky aunt is frightened to death by the 'chalice monster.'  With that we are off and running.<br />Allingham does her usual best to delight and bemuse, mixing forgers, racing people, gypsies, academics and other English country folks of every sort and form into the heady stew which is a Campion adventure.  Campion has matured tremendously since the first novels and is in full possession of his role as the somewhat zany yet brilliant master of the chase.  Allingham doesn't write mystery stories as such.  Often she gives the villain of the piece away and the real mystery is how Campion will manage to save the day.  &quot;The Gyrth Chalice&quot; is just such a tale.  The ending comes as a complete surprise and adds a dimension to the tale, which makes it especially remarkable and memorable.ise and adds a dimension to the tale, which makes it especially remarkable and memorable.	2001-03-11
2073935:US	53082946	R15X15158NH8BA	0440234956	782192465	The Grail (Area 51, Bk. 5)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Going Strong	It's hard to believe that this is the fifth volume in this series.  The prose is still going strong.  Each explained mystery reveals another one as the plot takes continual twists and turns.  Robert Doherty maintains a continuous tempo level as the story shifts from scene to scene.  This is fine, high-energy writing.  I read the first four novels within a month, and I've been awaiting volume five since then.  It took me a bit to reconnect with the story once The Grail became available, so don't expect to be able to start out with this book.  Track down the others in the series, they are all worth the effort.<br />The Grail picks up with Lisa Duncan trapped underneath the Sphinx with the Holy Grail.  Those Who Wait are on their way to a pyramid in China to awaken the alien Artad.  The guardian on Easter Island preparing for battle and the Mission scrambling to take advantage of events.  In the middle of all of this, Mike Turcott leads countless raids and adventures, stopping only read excerpts from the secret journal of Sir Richard Burton.  All of this happens in a mere 318 pages, so the pace is furious.<br />Doherty is a past master at the action book, weaving intricate plots and making sure everything fits together.  Unfortunately, with this fast a narrative style characterization suffers.  In Doherty's case it takes several books before you have a strong picture of the players.  With the Grail most of the groundwork is complete and pretty much all the cast is on board.  This is another good reason to take the time to read the rest of the series.<br />You won't regret it.  If you're a fan of the barn burning adventure story, with plenty of intrigue and alien paranoia mixed in you will wait impatiently for each volume as it comes out.  Have fun!!	2001-03-10
2080566:US	53082946	RU53XKZZX9DM8	1891946064	541007653	Gothique	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	If Only It Were True...	Gothique, set in Chicago, starts out as what seems to be a tale of an advertising campaign gone mad.  First, the managing editor of Charade Magazine is force to undress and jump from the roof of the Hancock Building.  Then, the magazine is refocused on the Chicago `goth' scene, in particular on the coming opening of a new entertainment center / nightclub `Gothique.'  Employees start to disappear as the campaign intensifies and Gothique nears opening.<br />Jeff Stancheck, Charade's art director, distracted by the recent arrival of his daughter Jacks, is caught up in the crazy quilt of events.  He gradually realizes that something is seriously wrong.  But it takes the involvement of a young designer and her vampirized roommate, the menacing of retired war (WW II) veteran and his dog Sox, as well as a threat to his own daughter before Stancheck realizes that Gothique is intended to be the cover and food source for a nest of vampires.  What ensues is an epic struggle to end the threat of Gothique and drive the vampires from the city.<br />Each of the protagonists of the story, Stancheck, his daughter, Frank Hoelevich the veteran, the designer Colleen, and others has a personal stake (pardon me) in the battle with Marek, the master of Gothique's minions.  If you enjoy vampire stories, it is almost impossible not to become involved in Gothique, even if you like to root for the vampires.<br />The vampires of Gothique are the traditional, really evil kind.  They don't simply like human blood; they like to cause maximum suffering in the taking.  They like to play with their food.  Much of their play is sexual.  Expect a lot of S/M and bondage overtones, these guys are not nice.<br />Kyle Marffin spends a great deal of time illuminating the `goth' social subculture.  He is often brutally honest, focussed on their fascination with appearances, role playing games and various drugs and escapes from the humdrum daylight world.  In it's way, this novel is the answer to the goth's dream `If only it were true...\\"  Marffin depicts them as somewhat self-deluded romantics and sexual rebels.  Of course, the nightclub is designed to attract and trap exactly these people.  Marffin's depiction is so graphic that he is motivated to put in an apologetic author's note, finally acknowledging that the goth's, despite their flaws are very much the true beatniks of the end of the 20th century.<br />While the vampire caf&eacute; has been used before (in Laurell Hamilton's \\"Circus of the Damned\\"), Marffin does a good job taking the concept to it's logical extreme as a plot device.  The author's storytelling and writing skills are often excellent.  There is some unevenness in the dialog, but this is made up for by fine atmospheric narrative.  Gothique will be a contender in this year's `best vampire story' race.dream `If only it were true...\\"  Marffin depicts them as somewhat self-deluded romantics and sexual rebels.  Of course, the nightclub is designed to attract and trap exactly these people.  Marffin's depiction is so graphic that he is motivated to put in an apologetic author's note, finally acknowledging that the goth's, despite their flaws are very much the true beatniks of the end of the 20th century.<br />While the vampire caf has been used before (in Laurell Hamilton's \\"Circus of the Damned\\"), Marffin does a good job taking the concept to it's logical extreme as a plot device.  The author's storytelling and writing skills are often excellent.  There is some unevenness in the dialog, but this is made up for by fine atmospheric narrative.  Gothique will be a contender in this year's `best vampire story' race.	2001-03-05
2088597:US	53082946	R22IV981JS5N61	0312971303	972760663	Catch Me (Jay Fletcher Thrillers)	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Who Will Guard the Guards	A. J. Holt's first book, 'Watch Me,' was the incredibly chilling story of Jay Fletcher, an FBI agent who discovers a serial killer site on the internet.  Driven by the horrors of her own past Jay is seduced into a hunting spree that rivaled those of the serial killers that became her victims.  Jay stepped over the line, and was only barely able to make her way back into the light.<br />Her last sanctioned hunt was for Billy 'Bones' Bonisteel, whom she successfully brought to trial and to justice.  Jay, also known as 'Ladykiller,' then disappeared into the FBI's witness protection program, hoping never to confront the dark side of her character again.<br />Unfortunately her idyllic retreat was not meant to last.  Billy Bones makes  his escape and demands that Jay be put on his trail.  If not, he threatens to go on a full blown killing spree.  Anxious to prevent publicity, the FBI permits Fletcher to take up the hunt.  Billy leads her on a nerve-wracking chase from coast to coast ending up in a spectaular finale in the Pacific Northwest.<br />This is not your basic slash and burn serial killer story.  For Billy Bones 'Catch Me' tells the story of his last, defiant struggle for freedom.  Holt allows us to peer continually into Billy's mind, detailing his belief in chaos theory and his belief that he is Charles Manson's child.  Billy has a certain  Hannibal Lector like charm for us.  Yet, in spite of all these insights and often ghastly details, Holt still masks the truth from us, leading to a surprise ending of great power.<br />For Jay Fletcher, 'Catch Me' is a coming of age novel.  Jay makes a journey from her new life as a Mendocino glassblower back into the horror of the hunt.  Confronting the her reality, she moves onward to self-discovery and acceptance of the creature she has become.  This occurs in natural flow, almost without the reader's awareness.  In her way she has become a model for the heroines of the 21st century.<br />Holt's ability to create characters that are enduring and real is remarkable.  It is honestly hard to believe that this is only a second novel.  'Watch Me' was a tough act to follow, yet 'Catch Me' succeeds completely, on many levels.  The book is relentlessly paced, and very hard to put down.  If you have a fondness for the serial killer thriller, 'Catch Me' will occupy a special place in your library.  One you will come back to many times.s that are enduring and real is remarkable.  It is honestly hard to believe that this is only a second novel.  'Watch Me' was a tough act to follow, yet 'Catch Me' succeeds completely, on many levels.  The book is relentlessly paced, and very hard to put down.  If you have a fondness for the serial killer thriller, 'Catch Me' will occupy a special place in your library.  One you will come back to many times.	2001-02-26
2091387:US	53082946	RIGWQ18KY2BL5	0754085414	229254306	The Case of the Late Pig (Black Dagger Crime Series)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Suffolk Barbecue	The Case of the Late Pig was originally part of the Mr. Campion Criminologist collection.  The novelette took on a life of it's own, however.  Quite short, it is ideal for audiotapes, large print novels, and even the telly.<br />What is most unusual about the Late Pig is that it is told by Campion in the first person.  If anything, Mr. Campion's version of the crime outdoes Margery Allingham, herself.  The shift is viewpoint is refreshing, and it is a shame Allingham did not try this more often.<br />Invited via an anonymous letter Campion attends the funeral of Pig Peters, his school bully, only to find himself invited six months later to assist in a murder case - and the victim is the very same Pig Peters.<br />The dead Mr. Peters has shown up under another identity in a Suffolk Village.  His efforts to turn a charming country house into the 30's version of a strip mall earns him the enmity of the owner, Poppy, and all the residents of the local village.  So it is no surprise when someone siezes the opportunity and drops a 300 pound flowerpot on him.  Campion is called in to assist the chief constable in saving the day (and to defend the innocent).<br />What follows is a classic Allingham comedy of manners, full of delightful characters and unpredictable events.  We have two estranged lady friends (Campion's and Pig's), the overly amorous vicar, the bored physician, the mild mannered whippet, and the mysterious mole.  And there is the inevitable climax, in which Campion hares over the fields of Suffolk in an effort to save the indomitable Lugg.<br />All of this action helps to distract us from the somewhat thinly disguised murderer.  The relative shortness of the book prevents Allingham from throwing up enough confusing red herrings, so you should be able to make a good guess in the first forty or so pages.  Don't let this stop you from reading the book, though.  It certainly doesn't detract from the overall fun of the novel.	2001-02-24
2093590:US	53082946	R3P19ZPTM17WD	0786701684	355614398	Mystery Mile (Allingham, Margery)	Books	5	44	47	N	N	Campion's First Starring Role	One year after his initial appearance in Crime at the Black Dudley, Albert Campion is back.  And what a difference a year makes.  This Campion is completely fleshed out.  He is now, officially the Universal Aunt (`your adventures undertaken for a fee').  Also present are his regular compatriots Lugg (his man) and Stanislaus Oates of Scotland Yard.  And let's not forget Autolycus the Jackdaw (who lays an egg).<br />It is as if Campion has been reinvented out of whole cloth.  And it's just wonderful.  Campion keeps up a steady patter of nonsense, bad jokes and horrible puns, interspersed with the plants and plots the keep him and his fellow characters alive.<br />American judge Crowdy Lobbett is saved from one of a series of attempts on his life by Albert's timely intercession with a mouse.  As a result Campion is taken on to save the judge from an early demise at the hands of Simister (see The Black Dudley).  Lobbett has a clue to Simister's true identity and the evil mastermind intends to remove this threat.<br />In a stroke of brilliance Campion convinces the Judge to move himself and his family to Mystery Mile at the residence of his two friends Biddy and Giles Paget.  This has an inauspicious start when Swithin Cush, the vicar, commits suicide after a session with a palm reader.  In short order the Judge disappears and  Biddy is kidnapped.  The Judge's children Marlowe and Isopel get entangled with the Pagets and typical Allingham version of a Chinese fire drill comes to pass.  Allingham's books rarely lack for action, and Mystery Mile is no exception.<br />Campion often loses in love, but Mystery Mile proves he can win our hearts.  He lacks the brilliance of Sayer's Lord Peter Whimsey, but he is by far the cleverer.  Bit players like Thomas Knapp and his terrifying mother never fail to enchant, as Allingham shows off a knack at capturing British dialects.  This volume spells the establishment of one of mysteries most loved series.  One that you will enjoy for many years to come.many years to come.	2001-02-22
2097174:US	53082946	R2AFYFIY90VP7V	0061056006	128270526	Cat on the Edge: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	4	55	56	N	N	An Atypical Cat Tale	I started reading this book expecting another Koko or Louie type of mystery novel.  To my surprise, I found was dealing with another beast entirely.  Shirley Murphy has her own, unusual approach to the feline mystery story.<br />Joe Grey, the main cat of this book suddenly discovers two things.  He can speak/think like a human, and he is the witness to a murder.  Murphy handles this as the crisis it would be in a cat's life, and that's the first surprise the book has to offer. Joe no sooner adapts to being the only English speaking cat on the block when he discovers he is being hunted by the murderer. To protect his owner, Joe leaves home to handle this.  We are actually treated to Joe calling his owner on the phone to explain why he has gone missing.<br />As the story progresses we discover that another cat, Dulcie, also witnessed the murder and can now speak and think in human.  Needless to say, this is a match made in heaven.  The cats immediately team up to bring the murderer to justice.<br />In the meantime, the murderer somehow turns a woman (Kate) who is an intended victim into a cat.  He uses a kind of Welsh magic.  This is never particularly well explained.  She discovers her husband is invovled in the crimes and sets out to even the score.<br />As you can tell, there is a lot of willing suspension of belief going on.  What is surprising is that Shirley Murphy comes very close to pulling it off.  She treats each of the semi-feline characters with great respect and the develop really and enchanting personalities (well, the cats do, Kate comes out a bit flat, despite a big part).  Other than the oddity of some characters being cats the story line is a typical thriller/crime novel, involving murder, car theft and counterfeiting.  At first this approach gave me some trouble, but I finally got into the groove and stopped expecting the story to behave in a particular way.<br />The two cats, Joe and Dulcie, really are charming.  Joe even manages to deliver a fine moral lesson that even a human could understand.  While I still find the tale a bit peculiar, I've decided to continue reading the series to see how things work out.fine moral lesson that even a human could understand.  While I still find the tale a bit peculiar, I've decided to continue reading the series to see how things work out.	2001-02-19
2097215:US	53082946	R29M5QERNL4P0U	0786707542	20471690	The Black Dudley Murder	Books	4	70	73	N	N	The First of the Campion Series	I've recently been inspired to reread my Margery Allingham books.  It's been some 30 years and I've clean forgotten all the plots.  I haven't forgotten how much fun they were, though.<br />Margery Allingham is one of the grand dames of British mystery fiction, usual ranked with Sayers, Marsh and Christie.  Pretty heady company!!  Allingham has, for the most part, a lighter style than the others.  Her hero, Campion has much in common with Lord Peter, but he lacks Whimsey's total perfection and flaunts his heritage (and education) a bit less.  Initially cast as a 'zany', he has a great deal of fun in him.  In later novels he will gradually mature into a genuinely remarkable character.<br />The Black Dudley Murder was the first novel in which Campion appears.  Written in 1928 when she was 23 (and just recently married) the book is quite a bit different from later volumes.  Campion is only sketched in.  While an important character, he is by no means the central hero of the plot.  And the story is very youth oriented, composed primarily of post-war (WW I) youth vs. villainous older male criminals.  The first time I read this book I was of an age with the younger half of the cast.  It was something of a shock to read it when I had more in common with the crooks.<br />The plot is the purest of British mystery confections.  A group of young folk are invited to a gloomy, desolate mansion for a week-end frolic as the request of the uncle of one of their number.  During a strange game of hide and seek played with an ancient dagger the uncle is murdered.  Campion has wormed his way into the party to recieve a set of plans from the old man, which he promptly misplaces, only to have them destroyed by the real protagonist of the book George Abbershaw.  One of the uncles compatriots turns out to be a German master criminal.  He wants the plans very badly.  badly enough to take the young folks prisoner and demand that they turn over the documents or else.  To complicate matters more, Abbershaw has destroy the plans in a fit of what can only be described as British ethicality.<br />Without fail, the plot thickens.  Before the book is over you will have crawled through endless secret passages, been rescued by a fox hunt, and chased a cleverly disguised Rolls Royce across England.  There is perhaps a little too much silliness going on, but I have begun to suspect that Allingham is pulling our legs straight thru the somewhat melodramatic ending.<br />All in all a good read.  Certainly The Black Dudley Murder is not Allingham's best, but it foreshadows many of the novels to come.  In her early work Allingham has a bright and distinctive approach to the problems and pleasures of the young men and women of post-war Britain.  This gave her a tremendous and well deserved readership that grew up along with her and her erratic hero.  Seventy years later she is still wonderful entertainment!e, Abbershaw has destroy the plans in a fit of what can only be described as British ethicality.<br />Without fail, the plot thickens.  Before the book is over you will have crawled through endless secret passages, been rescued by a fox hunt, and chased a cleverly disguised Rolls Royce across England.  There is perhaps a little too much silliness going on, but I have begun to suspect that Allingham is pulling our legs straight thru the somewhat melodramatic ending.<br />All in all a good read.  Certainly The Black Dudley Murder is not Allingham's best, but it foreshadows many of the novels to come.  In her early work Allingham has a bright and distinctive approach to the problems and pleasures of the young men and women of post-war Britain.  This gave her a tremendous and well deserved readership that grew up along with her and her erratic hero.  Seventy years later she is still wonderful entertainment!	2001-02-19
2100218:US	53082946	R3LBYXQOGNOI1W	0944092578	559956997	The Bone House	Books	5	25	26	N	N	The Magical Image	Aptly named, THE BONE HOUSE is a collection of Witkin's images covering the period from 1950 to 1998.  Witkin himself made the selection of his images.  This is the first time I have seen some of these photographs, but many others are drawn from Witkin's better known images.  The collection is remarkable.<br />Witkin is not an easy photographer/artist to get next to.  He uses death, morbidity, deformity and sexual diversity to continually push at aesthetic boundaries.  His work changes the viewer in it's search for beauty among the artifacts of the grotesque.<br />Yet it is not Witkin's intent to shock.  Few viewers realize the amount of planning and control that goes into these images.  Witken's own writings often depict himself as an aesthetic primitive or pagan, but this is far from the truth.  This volume, and the Celant collaboration with Witkin contain preliminary sketches that are worth the price of admission.  The artist's unearthly compositions, often composed with human and animal fragments are often drawn from images that come to us from the 16th and 17th century.<br />The book itself is beautifully bound and printed.  Twin Palms has done their best to capture the quality of the Witkin prints.  Unfortunately, this is a hopeless task.  He tears, scratches, paints and waxes a print until it is far more than a simple photographic print.  But the reproduction in the book is as good as I've seen.<br />I'm one of the fortunate few where was able to by the edition with the signed etching at it's earlier, pre-issue price.  Now that edition is quite dear.  If you can afford it, the etching is delightful, and well worth the expense.  If not, there is also a less expensive, unsigned version, now in it's second printing, for considerably less.<br />This is unnerving, thoughtful photography.  Consider this:<br />&quot;I have consecrated my life to changing matter into spirit in the hope of someday seeing it all.  Seeing its total form, while wearing the mask, from the distance of death.  And there, in the eternal destiny, to seek the face I had before the world was made.&quot; (Joel-Peter Witkin)distance of death.  And there, in the eternal destiny, to seek the face I had before the world was made.&quot; (Joel-Peter Witkin)	2001-02-17
2101567:US	53082946	R103XGY7P63R7K	0944092888	214438816	Premiere Nudes	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Wonderfully Graceful Figure Studies	If you have ever looked at some of the finer French (or American, or British) postcards of nude figures and found yourself drwn to the natural grace that many exhibit you will appreciate the work of Albert Arther Allen.<br />Allen was a San Francisco photographer who, in the 1920's, made his way by catering to a small clientele that collected 'boudoir photography.'  His photography was pretty soft core by today's standards, but they were serious erotic photography in their time.  Unlike the artistic nude tradition of later times, Allen's work has a natural intimacy and grace that make his pictures very approachable on many levels.<br />The poses are very academic, designed as compositions, perhaps with a tale to tell, as well as carefully posed studies of the female form.  The images are delicate and exhibit a fine control over the photographic process.<br />Allen had no great artistic pretensions and was something of a 'naturist.'  Today, with our jaded eyes, we will often perceive his efforts as high camp.  But they really are more than that, and worth some study.<br />The edition is the typical, lush Twin Palms effort, finely printed with extensive use of color plates to capture the images perfectly.  A book to appreciate and enjoy!	2001-02-15
2104349:US	53082946	R1T196DUNN2UK0	0312876955	332093193	The Whisperer and Other Voices: Short Stories and a Novella	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Lumley Revived.	I used to be a great fan of Brian Lumley's.  The early Necroscope novels were chilling and unique.  Lumley's Lovecraft derived tales were always great fun.  He showed the kind of imagination and control over his writing that often spelled greatness.<br />Unfortunately, Lumley seemed to get stuck on mining the Necroscope series for all that it's worth, and I simply grew tired of the them.  I can only do so much hideous, other dimensional, alien vampire reading.  The last few books in the series moved onto my Someday Isle (as in Someday Isle buy them) list.  It was in a moment of weakness that I picked up his latest collection of short(er) stories.<br />What a relief!!  Just when I had almost completely given up hope, The Whisperer saved the day. This is the original, strong writing that I found so entrancing years ago.  Readers will find much to enjoy as Lumley dips his pen into wells of humor, terror and pure fantasy.  This one is right up there with Fruiting Bodies, and The Compleat Crow.<br />The Whisperer contains Snarker's Son, Aunt Hester, The Whisperer, No sharks in the Med, Vanessa's Voice, The Statement of Henry Worthy, The Disapproval of Jeremy, Cleave, The Luststone, and the complete novel The Return of the Deep Ones.  The last is a fine piece of post-Lovecraftian writing that will delight all us addicts.  Among the short stories, The Whisperer and No Sharks in the Med are among my favorites.<br />Now that the Necroscope series is finally drawing to a close, The Whisperer provides a comforting glance into the future of Lumley's writing.  We can look forward to many more years of great Lumley thrills!!	2001-02-13
2104849:US	53082946	ROWIHECKL5YT	0312964277	29149603	Death of a Peer (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Marsh, Sayers, Allingham -- I love you all.	I know for a fact that I've read this book at least four times.  Once when I was barely pubescent and had no idea that Ngaio Marsh was an important mystery author.  Again in my 20's when I seriously started to read Marsh's books (an had forgotten that I'd read Death of a Peer).  Once more in my 40's for the heck of it, and now, once again. The best recommendation I can ever make is that this is an immensely re-readable book.<br />One doesn't read a classic English mystery story for the puzzle, as perplexing as that might be, but for the wonderful settings and characters.  Lord Peter, Albert Campion, and Marsh's Roderick Alleyn are all not just great detectives but fascinating people that you would love to have as friends.  What makes Marsh especially strong is how much detail she gives to her supporting cast.<br />The Lampreys are all perfect jewels of the story tellers art. They are the classic eccentric, down on their luck, British nobility. Too busy being noble and sincerely lovable to remember to be practical.  They are all charming, and your heart will also go out to Roberta Grey, one of the Lamprey's particular friends.<br />Other reviewers have gone over the plot, so I'm not going to bore you with details.  Suffice it to say you will be alternatively delighted and and horripilated (I think that's the word) as the book moves from light hearted comedy to a rather ghoulish end game.  Everything the mystery addict could ever want!<br />There are many good reasons to read this book.  It is one of the novels that helped define the British mystery story doyen.  Ngaio Marsh is on of the most important writers in that genre (even if she isn't quite British), and Death of a Peer is certainly one of her best books.<br />But the real reason to read it is that it is simply very, very good.  If you have never read a Marsh book this is a great way to start.  If you have, you know what you're missing.	2001-02-13
2105150:US	53082946	RUOM824LRN9PT	156858167X	884794164	The Hell Screens	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Obsessive Horror	Alvin Lu has written a first novel that inextricably combines a rich and unnerving spirit world with the very real actions of an elusive serial murderer.  The result is the kind of labyrinthine story telling which never fails to entrance.<br />Set in modern Taipei, the story is ostensibly the tale of Cheng-Ming, a Chinese-American researcher who is drawn into and seduced by the superstitions and myths of the city. We are treated to an ever darker study of of the Oriental spirit world, as we move through layers of myth and malevolence.  This world intrudes upon and is intruded on by modern Taipei.  We see ceremonies in sneakers and sacred comic books.  Signs and portents appear everywhere.<br />The novel is tremendously atmospheric, gaining momentum as the world he moves thru gradually overwhelms Cheng-Ming's westernized sensibilities.  At some point Cheng-Ming ceases to be an academic in search of signs and clues and becomes an obsessive seeker after knowledge which is always just beyond his reach.<br />The Hell Screens is far more than the typical serial killer horror story, combining the raw action and realities of murderous violence with a refined psychological study of a wanderer in the mist.  Prepare for a truly unusual, enjoyable experience.	2001-02-13
2108417:US	53082946	R3T8POCP9M9IXT	0345406095	801530135	Empire of Unreason (The Age of Unreason, Book 3)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Intricate Tapestry of Events	Empire of Unreason is the third volume (out of four) in J. Gregory Keyes series, \\"The Age of Unreason.\\" The series depicts an 18th Century world that has discovered the existence of angels who take an active role in the human world.  These are not the beneficient creatures that appear on Christmas cards, but spirits that intend the control and destruction of the human race.<br />In the first volume, \\"Newton's Cannon,\\" we find three key players, Isaac Newton, Benjamin Franklin and Adrienne do Montchevreuil enmeshed in the plots and machinations of the English and French kings.  This is a titanic struggle over Newton's discovery of Philosopher's Mercury.  It ends in the destruction of both countries when Louis XIV managed to aim a comet at London.<br />In the second volume, \\"A Calculus of Angels,\\" the world is plunged into a new Dark Age by the cataclysm. Newton and his assistant Franklin flee to Prague, while Adrienne struggles for survival and is drawn to Tsar Peter the Great.  Cotton Mather and Blackbeard lead an expedition to the Old World to find out what had happened.  Along with them comes a Choctaw shaman, Red Shoes, who will play an increasingly significant part in later volumes.<br />With most of the players introduced book three, \\"Empire of Unreason,\\" plays them out on a canvas that focuses on events in the New World.  Franklin and Red Shoes lead separate efforts that bring them in direct conflict with the machinations of angels manipulating imperial Russia.  These manifest as the appearance of James Stuart (the English Pretender) with an army on the Eastern Coast and the invasion of the Western Coast by Oriental and Russian forces lead by the Sun Child, who is actually de Montchevreuil's son.  The plot swirls with complexities as the various characters are drawn into what may become a confrontation in the next volume.  Here they fight battles and hunt the creatures of the Malakim (angels) and are hunted in turn.  The writing is colorful and there is a never-ending supply of cliffhangers and twists to keep up the reader's interest.<br />I am reading another alternate history series at the same time, Mary Gentle's Book of Ash.  This follows a young woman military commander in a struggle across the face of 15th century Europe.  The two series have much in common.  The heroes are facing enemies that would eradicate the human race.  The primary characters are touched by magical forces that change them permanently.  And their struggles are against overwhelming odds.<br />The series differ in that Ash is true science fiction coupled with superb military history, while the Age of Unreason is a fantasy with the illusion of a scientific basis.  Age of Unreason is the more intellectually interesting, since the author takes the time to delve into philosophical and metaphysical ideas. Not in such detail that the narrative is ever the least bit tedious, but there will be times when you put the books down and think over a paragraph.<br />Both series are exceptional works of author's imagination that I recommend wholeheartedly.  Certainly, if you enjoy one of them, you will enjoy the other.ver-ending supply of cliffhangers and twists to keep up the reader's interest.<br />I am reading another alternate history series at the same time, Mary Gentle's Book of Ash.  This follows a young woman military commander in a struggle across the face of 15th century Europe.  The two series have much in common.  The heroes are facing enemies that would eradicate the human race.  The primary characters are touched by magical forces that change them permanently.  And their struggles are against overwhelming odds.  <br />The series differ in that Ash is true science fiction coupled with superb military history, while the Age of Unreason is a fantasy with the illusion of a scientific basis.  Age of Unreason is the more intellectually interesting, since the author takes the time to delve into philosophical and metaphysical ideas. Not in such detail that the narrative is ever the least bit tedious, but there will be times when you put the books down and think over a paragraph.<br />Both series are exceptional works of author's imagination that I recommend wholeheartedly.  Certainly, if you enjoy one of them, you will enjoy the other.	2001-02-10
2111591:US	53082946	R21ZM18UH87TFC	0201616416	870177034	Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Well Thought Out Developmental Methodology	While short, terse, and delightfully well written, Kent Beck has put together a book which describes a carefully thought out and revolutionary approach to software development.<br />You wouldn't be sitting there reading this review unless you were already perplexed by the difficulties of traditional waterfall and phased development models.  Those of us that have lived through countless mega-million dollar corporate efforts that have suffered from poor code and misunderstood design have known for a while that something is wrong with the paradigm, but we are too willing to blame the problem on customers or managers to consider that we might have been doing it wrong.<br />Beck offers a very effective, rapid iteration model that really can produce working results in short order.  This is based on a set of practices, some of which are a bit surprising, but which work together quite well.<br />Beck proposes that business drivers, coupled with technical estimates, used iteratively drive the planning. He emphasizes small releases, simple design, and a coherent system metaphor. Automated, continuous unit testing, based on requirements builds a test set which encourages refactoring of the code. Refactoring plus frequent (even daily) system building and testing helps to reduce late project test crises.<br />Beck feels that pair programming, a limited work week, and a sense of collective ownership build effective development teams.  Other important factors are the presence of on-site customers and good coding standards.<br />Whew! Sounds like a lot.  But Beck makes sense of it all, and presents his approach clearly and with winning style.  This is a very easy read, and one that may change your whole approach to development.	2001-02-07
2112895:US	53082946	R1XDVEBWSSF5Z7	0451458184	263347790	Shadowrun 39: Tails you Lose	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beware the Evil Twin!!	When a key employee is extracted, Alma Wei, a security specialist, finds herself in the middle of a baffling investigation.  Worse, the victim is the researcher Alma needs to to repair some of her malfunctioning experimental implants.  Despite her efforts the researcher turns up dead.  And DNA evidence points to Alma herself as the shadowrunner who performed the extraction.  Suddenly she only has a few days to find the real culprit before a cranial bomb is set off in her head.<br />Thus begins a story of two women, Alma herself, and Night Owl, the shadowrunner who killed the researcher.  They were both members of the SuperKids, a specialised breeding experiment designed to create exceptionally talented individuals.  When the experiment is broken up after eight years the children lose all contact with each other.  The story expands to include several fixers and mages, various gangs, three dragons and an unusual financial advisor who lives in a condo beneath the ocean.  The plot takes countless twists and turns before the truth is finally uncovered.  If you miss a couple of early hints final section of the book will come as a real surprise.<br />This is Lisa Smedman's fifth book for the long-running Shadowrun series, and she is clearly comfortable in the intricate game world where both magic and advanced technology work.  I have enjoyed the series for some time, since many of the authors who participated are quite exceptional.  Smedman has done her best job to date.  Hopefully, Shadowrun will continue to be on of the best game-based series.	2001-02-06
2117707:US	53082946	RO3DB7B5WUJ9J	0399146652	489031643	The Cat Who Smelled a Rat	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Qwintessential Qwilleran	I was astounded when, in reading the covers of Lilian Braun's latest episode in her tales of James Qwilleran that \\"The Cat Who Smelled a Rat\\" was Volume 23.  I went to her shelf and, sure enough, I had read them all.  While they really are mystery stories, I don't really read them for that.  Rather, over the history of the series, I have become addicted to life in the far north town of Pickaxe.<br />I love wandering through the town with Qwilleran, meeting the many quirky characters, sharing in the gossip, reading Qwill's columns over his shoulder and, above all, interpreting the mystic messages of Koko the detective cat. As, I'm quite sure, will any mystery lover who needs a break from the noir fiction that makes up so much of modern mystery writing.<br />This time Pickaxe is in the throes of an autumn drought, trying to prevent brush fires and waiting impatiently for 'The Big One', the first big snowstorm of winter.  When a volunteer fire watcher is murdered at one of Moose County's famous mine shafthouses the mystery begins.  Be prepared for an Haiku contest, an elopement, curling and many delicious meals consumed at Pickaxe's seemingly inexhaustable supply of restaurants and inns.<br />Of course, the real heroes of all Braun's stories are Koko and Yum Yum, Qwill's faithful Siamese sidekicks. Koko, by virtue of superior intelligence and wit, works dilligently to provide Qwilleran with the clues needs to discover the villain and reveal his nefarious scheme.  Koko limited to growls and 'Yows' resorts to plant destruction, apple hockey and general chaos in order to keep Qwill on track.<br />If you've been following this series for as long as I have you will need no encouragement to read this new volume. For those of you who have never travelled to Pickaxe before, prepare for a lot of fun - all 23 volumes are well worth reading!!	2001-02-02
2118825:US	53082946	RCKZGUZXXWLVK	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Trenton's Answer to Buffy	Hot Six is quintessential Evanovich.  From the first moments spent talking a friend out of jumping off a bridge by pointing out that it would ruin her hair to her final confrontation with her cop boyfriend's psychic grandmother, Stephanie ricochets from adventure to adventure.<br />When her friend/mentor Ranger jumps bail to avoid being questioned on a murder rap, Stephanie comes to the rescue.  She is aided by Dougie the Dealer, Lulu the retired ho', her own gun toting grandmother, and a bewildering cast of crazies as she takes on a group of criminals that are only slightly less inept than Stephanie herself.<br />If you think that humorous crime novels are a limited genre, prepare for an embarassment of riches.  Only in an Evanovich novel will you find such moments as the dog poop car bomb or the stiff in the lounge chair.  The author seems to have an unlimited supply of novel twists and turns.<br />So if you are prepared to faced such agonizing questions as 'what to do with a dog that eats everything' and 'will Joe Morelli ever have sex again' you are ready for Hot Six.  Actually, you think you are ready for Hot Six.  Maybe you should have a cold shower first!!	2001-02-01
2120323:US	53082946	R38D0XGQGE42RC	2950600905	558574626	Chartreux Cat	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	A Trifle Dry	As the pleased owner of two Chartreux (Chartreuses?) I snapped this book up as soon as I found it.  I found it interesting, but a tad disappointing.  The auther does an excellent job of explaining the ancient (mostly chimerical) and modern history of the breed.  Chartreux are considered the oldest of the modern breeds.  Although it is possible that some version of the 'little grey cat' has been delighting and perplexing its helpstaff (that's us) for millenia.<br />But while the book is very good at history it is weaker at managing to capture the 'Essence de Chartreux.'  The Chartreux are the patient lovers of the cat world.  Calmly caring for us with affection and understanding.  But in each, there is a mysterious part which is their's alone never shared with any human or even another cat.  All of this ineffability is a bit hard to describe unless you know a Chartreux.  In that case, you're already on the way to being an addict.<br />The photography, while plentiful, is not very professional.  Chartreux take wonderful portraits and a rogues gallery would have been a nice addition.  Even so, if you are interested enough in Chartreux to be interested in a book about them, this one will do.  Hurrah for the author's willingness to share his extensive knowledge.  The Chartreux breed has no more faithful champion	2001-01-31
2124069:US	53082946	R3UMH9G08748A0	0743406966	50448293	Shakedown (ANGEL)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Vintage (?) Angel	This is just the cure for this season's Angel/Buffy blues.  If you need relief for Angel's perpetual anguish over the reborn Darla and Drusilla you will enjoy this book immensely.<br />Angel is hired to help solve the problems of a group of snake demons and finds himself embroiled in a complex plot involving earthquakes, sacrifices, as well as our favorite bad guys, Wolfram &amp; Hart.  This is pure first season Angel.<br />Told with a wry sense of humor the story moves along quickly.  Doyle and Cordelia are totally in character - not too bright, or too civilised.  Which, of course, is what makes them perfect companions for Angel.  While there is nothing deep or meaningful here to give the book any redeeming value, it is pure entertainment, and, as such, is worth reading.  Especially if you can settle down in a comfy chair with a large store of popcorn (lot's of butter, please).	2001-01-28
2127718:US	53082946	R3I3GVVW6N4LR6	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	3	49	66	N	N	Well written - - - Pornography??	Most of the early Anita Blake stories were fine examples of fantasy writing, coupling interesting plots with a host of well defined characters.  Her vision of a world where technology, magic, and spiritualism coexist was refreshing.  Late in the series, though her focus shifted from what was happening to Blake to with whom (or what) and how she was having sex.  The writing remained strong, but the devices of plot and character suffered greatly.<br />I am saddened to report that A Kiss of Shadows (and it's probable sequels) continues this trend.  Her heroine (Meredith Gentry) is a mortal sidhe (a contradiction in terms) who has earned the enmity of her aunt, who is queen of the unseelie court.  The plot of the book is primarily about her running and hiding from one threat or another.  This could have been a very interesting book, but Merry becomes so enmeshed in having some form of sex with nearly each and every creature she meets up with.  She becomes so involved in the sexual antics that the plot simply becomes a device to get to the next sex scene.<br />If you are into kinky sex you will love this book.  Especially kinky sex with wierd creatures.  If you prefer characters who have brains as well as sex organs you will be a bit disappointed.  And it is quite possible that some scenes may be offensive to more conservative readers.<br />Another irritating problem with this book is that Hamilton invents her worlds out of whole cloth, paying minimal attention to the traditional mythology from which she borrows.  Just as her vampires and weres are somewhat unusual, her fey world echoes the traditional folk tale world, but deviates from that model whenever Hamilton feels the need.  All in good fun I'm sure, but I have trouble with mortal sidhe, the peculiar use of fey and the strange racism the book flirts with.<br />I have read my share of soft core pornography, and can honestly say that Hamilton is one of the best in that genre.  What disappoints and worries me is that she has established herself as a popular author based on her tamer novels, and is now using that popularity to promote writing which would not normally have been considered mainstream.<br />Each reader will have to decide for him or herself.  I have decided to remove Hamilton from my 'hardcover' list. For now, I'll continue to pick up her novels in softcover, in the hope that she will learn how to balance sexuality and fantasy prose.she has established herself as a popular author based on her tamer novels, and is now using that popularity to promote writing which would not normally have been considered mainstream.<br />Each reader will have to decide for him or herself.  I have decided to remove Hamilton from my 'hardcover' list. For now, I'll continue to pick up her novels in softcover, in the hope that she will learn how to balance sexuality and fantasy prose.	2001-01-25
2136075:US	53082946	R1SITLRAMNS44D	0812589548	5386848	Darklost	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Darklost - worth the price of admission	Farren is a rarety in this day and age, a writer who takes the time to build a plot and define characters.  There is faint element of parody in what he does that gives it an unexpected tang.<br />In the Darklost Farren weaves several subplots into a very enjoyable read.  The Nosferatu have fled to California and are trying to reestablish a home there.  Almost inexorably they are forced by events into saving the world for humanity.  Interesting characters and many insights into the history and culture of Farren's vampires make this an exceptionally pleasant bedside read.<br />This isn't a book for readers who want splatter and intense violence.  But if you like to linger over a book, Darklost will work for you.	2001-01-18
2136147:US	53082946	R1MJY89D0QC2AD	0786013125	392822507	The Summoning	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Lots of interesting twists.	When I started THE SUMMONING I thought I was going to find myself reading the standard, western vampire story.  You know, caves, bats, Indian legends, etc.  But every time I almost got it pinned down the plot took a little twist.  It still is basically one of the 'small group of people vs. the monster' genre.  But it is more than that.<br />I have no idea if Cup-hu-girngsi's are a real Chinese legend, but they are a unique spin on the vampire persona.  These days most vampires are heroes in TV series.  Instead, the corpse-who drinks-blood is one of the genuinely horrific, subverting, personalities and human foibles to create some remarkable acts of evil.<br />The violence escalates nicely without being excessive and it's chilling nature adds a sense of tragedy to the story.  Several of the character depictions (like the Chinese grandmother) stand out.  The book stands out from others in this genre.	2001-01-18
2145562:US	53082946	R20VN927RKFG8Z	1565048350	449753294	Clan Novel Nosferatu (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Best of an Uneven Series	Gherbod Fleming has been the salvation of this particular series.  I believe he has written 5 of them, and while there are others with flashes of fine writing, Fleming is consistently readable.<br />This volume is one of the best.  Confronted with the task of capping off a series that has completely rewritten the vampiric map of the eastern seaboard Fleming has managed to draw many threads together, and pull off a surprise ending.<br />While the book does begin with something of a recap, don't expect to be able to follow the story unless you have read at least some of the preceding books in the series.  And don't expect all the mysteries to be resolved either.<br />When I first started reading the books I thought they would be a 13 volume study of the various clans, and they really are not that.  They are a history of a very short, but important period in the history of the Masquerade.  While they pick up on other themes, do not expect all the peripheral questions to be resolved.  Whatever is deep under New York City is still a mystery, and the reason for all the to-do about the Eye of Hazumel is still unclear.  These will no doubt be the basis for many new tales.<br />In the meantime, this is a very pleasantly written book, and I greatly enjoyed the Nosferatu viewpoint.  You will enjoy this book if you have enjoyed the series at all.	2001-01-10
2167136:US	53082946	R27PT28BKCXKIX	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Yes!  Yes!!	It is always a pleasure to encounter an Eddings book, and this one is no exception.  After a slightly stilted start, the book picks up both in action and in the usual Eddings crazy quilt of characters that never quite take themselves seriously.  In this time of perpetually noir fiction it is a delight to read a book where the good guys win and the world is a better place for the effort.<br />This group of characters is a little brighter and sneakier than previous efforts. And there are definitely some characteristics borrowed from other Eddings' efforts, but there is more than enough novelty to make this a worthwile read.<br />My only regret is that it was written as a standalone novel.  Eddings is one of the few authors who really do need volumes to fully develop characters, worlds, and action.  They paint with a very fine brush, so this mere 700 page effort sometimes feels sketchy and jerks around a bit.  But it is still a real pleasure to experience - READ IT.	2000-12-23
2173747:US	53082946	R1FC5M1EVIR0WD	0441007244	219406259	Lady Crymsyn (Vampire Files, No. 9)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Elrod Strikes Again!!	I've been reading this series for a very long time, and have enjoyed each one.  Jack Fleming is a somewhat traditional vampire who is also one of the good guys.  Don't expect to encounter all the anguish and soul searching that Angel goes thru.  Jack is hardly supernatural, instead, he is simply an all American boy with a 'condition.'<br />I enjoyed Jack's adventures in night club ownership so much that I went back and reread most of the series.  This was a mixed blessing.  I realised that there was a long period where the plots were very much the same.  It's post-prohibition Chicago, guys-gals-gansters, and one gregarious and somewhat inept vampire.  Considering the Jack can vanish, walk thru walls, see in the dark and tear people in half, it is amazing how many times he overestimates his abilities and gets beaten to near death with a stick (or an end table, etc.)<br />Jack seems to have acquires some intelligence in Lady Crymsyn, and that adds some depth to him and his story which make this one of the most pleasant volumes in the series.	2000-12-16
2173801:US	53082946	R2NCZJV4X5K72R	1565049691	148613982	Predator & Prey: Vampire (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Tedious	I have to agree with the other reviewer, the advertising blurbs and labelling are very misleading.  I normally find White Wolf books a bit slow paced.  This book had almost no action in it until the last 50 pages.  The rest was a long demonstration of the political and social attributes of the Michigan (except Detroit) vampire clans.  They tend to behave and act like gangsters rather than creatures of the supernatural.  Just not my piece of cake.  Since I live in the area the book focuses on I found the setting badly misses the flavor of southern Michigan.  I know it's an 'alternate' world but the author has failed to create an environment with any element of interest. This is a firm 'do not buy.'	2000-12-16
2184830:US	53082946	RPBDGGTR2YZ0D	0451409450	553807381	Darkness Bound	Books	1	15	19	N	N	Few Redeeming Features	I'm actually mystified by the number of positive reviews of this book.  For me it was disappointing on many levels.  Since all the marketing hype presents Darkness Bound as an excursion into the dark and sexy world of bondage and fetishism I expect more than a vague and tepid kind of fumbling sensuality.  The eroticism is very artificial at best. Keep in mind, bondage isn't really about sex, it's about the illusion of control and the loss of that control.  While that might justify the book's inept sexuality, the dominant/submissive  relationship is just as poorly portrayed.  The characters are very shallow and the situations often are ridiculous enough to cause more laughter than arousal. Finally, the plot wanders, characters are poorly defined and the final effect is unsatisfying. I would suggest that the reader save his or her money and re-read Justine or the Story of O.  Or find a friend and ....	2000-12-07
2219890:US	53082946	R2R9PCK2D8DQYB	0743400461	368820126	Spike & Dru : Pretty Maids All In A Row	Books	3	24	30	N	N	Well written, but difficult subject	Before I settle in to critique, I want to say that this is a very well written book.  Golden's talents are well showcased here.  However, the book is plagued with problems which writing cannot conceal. To my disappointment, this really isn't a Buffy book.  Other than the appearance of Spike, Dru and the Watchers there is no real Buffy presence.  Which makes sense, all the action in the book takes place in World War 2.  If it weren't for the slayer mythos that it borrows, the this volume could be any occult serial killer book that has ever been written. And serial killers are what we have here.  Spike &amp; Dru are remarkably unsympathetic characters.  At first their antics add a bid of humour, but as the grotesque body count mounts Spike's nastiness and Drusilla's evil hippy princess act lose their luster.  For the most minor of reasons they set out on a slay ride of horrific proportions sA is often the case with the serial killer genre, the book presents an unrelieved picture of violence against women.  There were points where I felt that Golden was using female people as plot gimmicks to make Spike &amp; Dru look worse.  We tolerate the violence in Buffy's books because it often serves a purpose.  In this book the violence is sadly unanswered. As such this is truly noir writing.  The plot gets grimmer and grimmer, with no letup or relief.  Just about everyone dies, and few, if any, of the deaths serve a purpose other than to upset our digestion.  While Buffy herself is a difficult heroine, mixing violence and anti-intellectualism in with her positive traits, Spike and Dru are simply Hannibal Lecter without class. Hopefully this is a short term aberration.	2000-11-06
2261918:US	53082946	R1BG1DYLB1D2UH	0786916362	376315983	In Hollow Houses (Dark Matter, Book 1)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Dark and Ponderous	I'm afraid I was disappointed by this first volume in a series which is already projected to 5 volumes.  The plot background, basically a reverse v'ger with an ounce or two of X-files, unfolds in truly tedious fashion.  Action occurs in short jerky motions.  Tunnel chases get interrupted for philosophical soliliquies, etc.  Conspiracy lovers will have a ball, however.  The writer picks up on all the old theories and adds dashes of aliens where you would never expect them.  Literally nothing is as it seems.  If you like dark, baroque, excrutiatingly complex settings this will be a series you might come to love. Our best hope here is that this ponderous writing is corrected in later volumes by other authors and that the core story becomes a rich source of invention.  In the meantime, I'm pretty sure you will have to read volume 1 to be able to follow what's coming.	2000-10-02
2434820:US	53082946	R3RTYHIH21LZFW	0879517050	837957841	The Erotic Anime Movie Guide	Books	2	16	20	N	Y	The Humdrum Guide to XXX Anime	While this book provides detailed coverage of much of the dark side of anime, it is marred by very lackluster writing and a dearth of illustration.  The writers shift back and forth from a dry academic  philosophizing which sometimes borders on apologising for Japanese tastes  to an equally dry reporting of film contents. This should be a fascinating  subject.  The Japanese have focused considerable writing, illustrative and  musical talent on sexually oriented anime, and this strange little book  seems  to want to downplay all of that. Hopefully someone else will be  inspired to create the book this should have been.	2000-06-09
